pages: 46

--- PAGE 1 ---
This paper has been accepted for publication at the
International Journal of Computer Vision (IJCV), 2024. ©Springer
RGB Guided ToF Imaging System: A Survey of Deep
Learning-based Methods
Xin Qiao 1, Matteo Poggi 2,3, Pengchao Deng 1, Hao Wei 1, Chenyang Ge 1*,
Stefano Mattoccia 2,3
1*Institute of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, Xi’an Jiaotong University, No.28, West
Xianning Road, Xi’an, 710049, Shaanxi, China.
2Department of Computer Science and Engineering (DISI), University of Bologna, Viale
Risorgimento, 2, Bologna, 40136, Emilia-Romagna, Italy
3Advanced Research Center on Electronic System (ARCES), University of Bologna, Via
Vincenzo Toffano, 2/2, Bologna, 40125, Emilia-Romagna, Italy.
*Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): cyge@mail.xjtu.edu.cn;
Abstract
Integrating an RGB camera into a ToF imaging system has become a significant technique for perceiv-
ing the real world. The RGB guided ToF imaging system is crucial to several applications, including
face anti-spoofing, saliency detection, and trajectory prediction. Depending on the distance of the
working range, the implementation schemes of the RGB guided ToF imaging systems are different.
Specifically, ToF sensors with a uniform field of illumination, which can output dense depth but have
low resolution, are typically used for close-range measurements. In contrast, LiDARs, which emit
laser pulses and can only capture sparse depth, are usually employed for long-range detection. In the
two cases, depth quality improvement for RGB guided ToF imaging corresponds to two sub-tasks:
guided depth super-resolution and guided depth completion. In light of the recent significant boost
to the field provided by deep learning, this paper comprehensively reviews the works related to RGB
guided ToF imaging, including network structures, learning strategies, evaluation metrics, benchmark
datasets, and objective functions. Besides, we present quantitative comparisons of state-of-the-art
methods on widely used benchmark datasets. Finally, we discuss future trends and the challenges in
real applications for further research.
Keywords: RGB-guided ToF imaging, Deep learning, Depth super-resolution, Depth completion,
Multimodal fusion
1 Introduction
The real world is three-dimensional, yet usually
recorded with 2D vision sensors such as color cam-
eras. To faithfully portray it, a diffuse trend is to
employ a depth camera during collection, widely
used nowadays in downstream tasks related to
computer vision and pattern recognition, such as
face anti-spoofing (P. Deng, Ge, Qiao, & Wei,
2022; A. Liu et al., 2021), saliency detection (Cong
et al., 2018), autonomous driving (H¨ ane et al.,
2017; Y. Wang et al., 2019) and virtual/aug-
mented reality (VR/AR) (Holynski & Kopf, 2018;
Kalia, Navab, & Salcudean, 2019). Among depth
1
arXiv:2405.10357v1  [cs.CV]  16 May 2024

--- PAGE 2 ---
cameras, time-of-flight (ToF) technology emerges
as the preferred choice for many applications
thanks to its compact structure, high precision,
and low cost. Recently, the iPad Pro and iPhone
Pro/Pro Max from Apple use LiDAR based on
direct ToF (dToF) technology, often adopted in
fields such as biometrics, photography, games,
modeling, virtual reality, and augmented reality.
The ToF-only imaging system is usually pre-
ferred when cost efficiency, energy efficiency, fast
real-time, or privacy sensitivity are the primary
considerations.
While ToF-only cameras might be the pre-
ferred choice in scenarios where depth sensing
is paramount, some drawbacks still limit their
performance in applications such as scene under-
standing, mixed reality, human-computer interac-
tion, and facial recognition, where accuracy, ver-
satility, and image content cues play a crucial role.
In particular, the resolution of existing consumer-
grade ToF cameras is about 300K pixels, with the
LiDAR sensors – again based on the time of flight
principle – used, for instance, by autonomous
vehicles capturing even sparser measurements. In
contrast, the resolution of RGB cameras used in
mobile phones (e.g., Huawei P60) can reach dozens
of MegaPixels, i.e., orders of magnitude higher, yet
at a much lower cost. One solution is to directly
enhance the low-quality (LQ) ToF depth map, i.e.,
to upsample (Riegler, R¨ uther, & Bischof, 2016) or
densify (Uhrig et al., 2017) it, relying on hand-
crafted or neural network-learned priors. However,
these priors are likely to cause the predicted High-
Resolution (HR) depth to contain blurred edges
and other undesired artifacts. To face these issues,
RGBD cameras integrate an HR RGB imager
and a ToF sensor. Then, under the guidance of
HR color images, sparse or Low-Resolution (LR)
depth maps can be densified or super-solved by
exploiting the structural details available from the
high-resolution image content.
In practical applications, ToF cameras based
on different technical routes are deployed in dif-
ferent scenarios, mainly divided into the following
three categories: 1) for short-ranging acquisition
in applications like face/gesture recognition, typ-
ically using an indirect ToF (iToF) camera with
a uniform field of illumination, obtaining a dense
depth map, yet at a low resolution; 2) for long-
range measurements, as in the case of LiDAR
sensors emitting laser pulses, which produces a
375×1242
375×1242 ×0.5 ×0.25
375×1242 ×2 ×4
Fig. 1 : An example of LiDAR point cloud from
the KITTI dataset reprojected on images at dif-
ferent resolutions.
scattered point cloud of the sensed scene: when
coupled with a color camera, the sparsity of the
depth map obtained by projecting the point cloud
on the image plane depends on the resolution of
the image, the higher, the sparser – i.e., containing
only 5% of pixels encoding valid depth measure-
ments (Ma, Cavalheiro, & Karaman, 2018) on ∼
0.3Mpx images; 3) for medium-ranging, as in the
case of the ToF cameras used in augmented reality
and automated guided vehicle robots, either iToF
or dToF can be used. However, even when iToF
is used for short-ranging, depth values around the
corners or edges may be missing.
In the three cases, improving the quality of
original depth maps translates into 1) upsampling
the original, spatial resolution through G uided
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Depth S uper-Resolution (GDSR ) (Ferstl, Rein-
bacher, Ranftl, R¨ uther, & Bischof, 2013; L. He et
al., 2021), or 2) densifying the sparse depth map
through Guided Depth Completion (GDC) (Cho-
dosh, Wang, & Lucey, 2019; Uhrig et al., 2017).
The goal of GDSR is to utilize RGB images to
increase pixel density for low-resolution depth and
provide richer visual details, while GDC aims
to fill in missing depth values in sparse depth
maps obtained when using laser pulses, as well as
increase the overall depth map resolution – as the
sparsity of the depth map depends on the resolu-
tion of the image over which the sensed point cloud
is projected (the lower the image resolution, the
denser the projected depth map; the higher the
image resolution, the sparser the depth map). In
Fig. 1, we show an example of LiDAR point cloud
from the KITTI dataset reprojected at the origi-
nal resolution used in the dataset (375 ×1242) as
well as both at lower and higher resolution (respec-
tively ×0.5, ×0.25, ×2 and ×4). We can observe
how assuming different camera resolutions pro-
duces depth maps whose density changes sensibly,
with fewer holes present at lower resolutions and
much sparser depth points at higher resolutions.
This evidence confirms that the density of a depth
map obtained from LiDAR scans is a function of
the resolution at which we wish to obtain a depth
map and that, to some extent, the completion
process has analogies with the super-resolution
task. The key difference with GDSR is that the
laser spot emitted by LiDAR in GDC is tiny and
typically cannot cover the scene corresponding to
one pixel in the sensor. Therefore, GDC usually
requires perceiving a larger neighborhood (e.g.,
7 × 7) than GDSR in shallow feature extraction of
the input to estimate depth values in areas where
the information is missing. Generally, RGB guided
ToF imaging systems involve one of the two sub-
tasks, depending on the use case and the depth
sensing technologies. Consequently, different solu-
tions must be deployed depending on the specific
sub-task. Nonetheless, both tasks aim to yield
high-quality depth maps with the guidance of
RGB information, that is, transfer high-frequency
structural information and fine-grained features
from HR color images to LR/sparse depth maps
while avoiding texture-copying artifacts. Further-
more, it is worth noting that the model design
of the two tasks exhibits intriguing similarities,
which inspired us to analyze them together as
one topic for investigation, and their specific clas-
sification will be elaborated upon in Sec. 2.4.
At first, traditional methods extract mean-
ingful features from color images through guided
filtering-based (K. He, Sun, & Tang, 2012; J. Liu,
Gong, & Liu, 2012; Petschnigg et al., 2004) or
optimization-based (Diebel & Thrun, 2005; Ferstl
et al., 2013; S. Lu, Ren, & Liu, 2014) algo-
rithms. These hand-crafted approaches rely on
the assumption that depth discontinuities statisti-
cally co-occur in correspondence with RGB image
edges. In real-world cases, however, this prior may
fail to extract informative features and introduce
artifacts. For instance, in the presence of rich tex-
ture, these methods convey essential structural
details but also transfer the appearance of RGB
images to depth maps as a side effect. There-
fore, this task remains challenging as it requires
properly distinguishing between high-frequency
image information corresponding to discontinu-
ities in the depth map and those not. Over the
past decades, solutions for enhancing RGB guided
ToF imaging have shifted from model-driven to
data-driven paradigms (X. Deng & Dragotti, 2019;
Wong, Cicek, & Soatto, 2021), in particular thanks
to deep learning methods (Cheng, Wang, Guan,
& Yang, 2020; Z. Zhao, Zhang, Xu, Lin, & Pfis-
ter, 2022; Zuo, Fang, An, Shang, & Yang, 2020)
that have rapidly advanced the field. Even with
a simple network structure, such as a few stacked
convolutional layers (Uhrig et al., 2017) or the
vanilla encoder-decoder (Y. Li, Huang, Ahuja, &
Yang, 2016) architecture, it is straightforward to
recover HR/dense depth maps with much higher
accuracy compared to what obtained through
hand-crafted methods. Consequently, RGB guided
ToF imaging via deep learning received increas-
ing research interest from academia and industry,
motivating us to survey recent progress in this
field.
Specifically, given the substantial development
of deep-learning solutions in the last decade, this
survey aims to provide a complete overview of
solutions designed for enhancing RGB guided ToF
imaging in both use cases. Although we are aware
of previous review papers on guided depth super-
resolution (Zhong, Liu, Jiang, Zhao, & Ji, 2023b)
and depth completion (J. Hu et al., 2022; Xie,
Yu, Gao, Li, & Shen, 2022) treated as standalone
tasks, we highlight the lack of interconnection
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Fig. 2 : Timeline showing the advances in RGB guided ToF Imaging. Methods are marked in blue or
purple, depending on the learning paradigm being unsupervised or supervised.
between the two, despite the shared insights they
bring to the community of researchers working
with RGB guided ToF sensors, which we aim to
envelop in a comprehensive survey. Purposely, we
will review the literature concerning deep learn-
ing frameworks developed to enhance the depth
maps perceived from this family of devices. We
will study and classify them according to sev-
eral aspects, such as the framework design, the
learning paradigm, and the objective functions
minimized during training. Moreover, we intro-
duce the reader to the standard datasets used
as benchmarks for evaluating existing methodolo-
gies, reporting the performance of state-of-the-art
methods as a reference.
We outline our major contributions as follows:
• To the best of our knowledge, we are the first
to provide an in-depth investigation for RGB
guided ToF imaging through deep learning,
including guided depth super-resolution and
guided depth completion as the main tasks to
be dealt with according to the specific use case.
• In each subtask, this paper reviews recent deep
learning-based methods under several aspects to
illustrate the motivations behind their design,
contributions, and performance.
• We discuss the challenges and future trends of
RGB guided ToF imaging.
The rest of this survey is structured as fol-
lows. In Section 2, we describe preliminaries for
RGB guided ToF imaging. Section. 3 and 4
present deep learning-based methods for GDSR
and GDC, respectively. In Section 5, we introduce
the datasets and loss functions. Section 6 pro-
vides comparison results of some recent methods.
Finally, we discuss future trends and challenges in
Section 7. Fig. 2 draws a timeline and reports for
each year from 2017 to 2023, any method we will
review in this paper, and the publication venue.
2 Preliminaries and
Taxonomy
In this section, we first introduce the foundation of
RGB guided ToF imaging, then we present GDSR
and GDC as the two main research trends aimed
at enhancing ToF depth maps and the commonly
used objective functions in both.
2.1 Principles of ToF Imaging
Here, we describe the imaging principles of iToF
and dToF, respectively. In Fig. 3, we provide a
schematic diagram of the principles commonly
used by iToF and dToF.
2.1.1 Indirect ToF
Indirect ToF (iToF) determines distance by cap-
turing reflected light and calculating the phase
delay between emitted and reflected light. Cur-
rently, most of the off-the-shelf ToF cameras emit
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
Table 1: Characteristics of different types of LiDAR.
Type T echnology Advantages Disadvantages
Mechanical Rotating mirrors or prisms High accuracy, long range Large, expensive
MEMS Micromirrors Small, cheap Lower FoV, range
Flash Arrays of lasers firing simultaneously Fast, high resolution Short range
OPA Optical phased arrays Small, cheap, versatile Still in development
Imager
Laser Transmitter
Target
A
t
A
t
Dj Dt
iToF dToF
Fig. 3 : iToF and dToF working principles.
The former computes distances based on the phase
shift between emitted and reflected light; the lat-
ter measures the time required for a laser light to
bounce over an object.
signals s(t) using sinusoidal amplitude modula-
tion:
s(t) = s1 cos(ωt) + s0 (1)
Since the baseline between the ToF transmit-
ter and the receiver is so small (usually only a
few millimeters), they can generally be consid-
ered coaxial. Assuming that the target is static,
and the signal is only reflected once before being
received by the sensor, the reflected signal of a
single pixel measured at a specific fixed frequency
can be expressed as a function of time t:
r(t) = ρ
c2τ 2
0
[s1 cos(ωt − 2ωτ0) + s0] + e0 (2)
where ρ is the surface reflectivity of the target,
ω denotes angular frequency, τ0 is the delay of
signal reflection from the target back to a pixel
at the speed of light c ≈ 3 × 108m/s, and e0 is
the offset caused by ambient light. According to
Heide, Heidrich, Hullin, and Wetzstein (2015), Eq.
1 can be rewritten as:
A1 = ρs1
c2τ 2
0
, A 0 = ρs0
c2τ 2
0
+ e0 (3)
r(t) = A1 cos(ωt − 2ωτ0) + A0 (4)
The received signal remains sinusoidal, but the
phase, which contains scene depth information, is
changed. After a high-frequency periodic signal
B1 cos(ωt − ϕ) modulates the incident signal, the
modulated signal can be expressed as:
˜Iϕ,ω(t) =r(t)B1 cos(ωt − ϕ)
= A1B1 cos(ϕ − 2ωτ0)
2 +
A1B1 cos(2ωt + ϕ + 2ωτ0)
2 +
A0B1 cos(ωt − ϕ)
(5)
Considering the quantum efficiency of ToF sen-
sors, the sensor exposure time T set to capture a
sufficient number of photons is usually much larger
than πc/ω. During the exposure, the measurement
is equivalent to integrating over the time range
T , so the period terms in Eq. 5 all vanish in the
calculation, and the result can be computed as:
Iϕ,ω =
Z T /2
−T /2
˜iϕ,ω(t)dt
≈ A1B1 cos(ϕ − 2ωτ0) = A1gϕ,ω (6)
where A1 is the scene response that represents
the intensity of the encoded corresponding pixel
at time τ0 after the laser transmitter sends a light
pulse, gϕ,ω = B1 cos(ϕ − 2ωτ0) is the camera
function, and Iϕ,ω is the raw measurement with
correlation at phase ϕ, angular frequency ω, i.e.
ToF raw data. If a single modulation frequency
fm is used to collect multiple ( K ≥ 2) raw mea-
surements in one cycle, the distance between the
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
scene and camera can be calculated as:
d = c
2ω arctan( sin ϕ · Iϕ,ω
cos ϕ · Iϕ,ω
) (7)
In practice, if the modulation frequency fm = ω
2π
is fixed, ToF cameras usually adopt the four-phase
method to sample ToF raw data, i.e., sampling
four times in one cycle, with a phase step of 90 ◦.
For ease of reading, the four raw data can be
abbreviated as Ii = I π
2ω i, i = 0, 1, 2, 3.
A =
p
(I3 − I1)2 + (I0 − I2)2
2 (8)
B = I0 + I1 + I2 + I3
4 (9)
ϕ = arctan I3 − I1
I0 − I2
(10)
d = c
2π ( ϕ
2f + N) (11)
where N is an integer that represents the num-
ber of phase wraps. Based on the above principle,
some works (Chugunov, Baek, Fu, Heidrich, &
Heide, 2021; Gutierrez-Barragan, Chen, Gupta,
Velten, & Gu, 2021; J. Li, Yue, Zhao, & Hu, 2022;
S. Su, Heide, Wetzstein, & Heidrich, 2018) directly
process the raw signal of the iToF, thus improving
the depth quality.
At present, most iToF for consumer use sensors
based on complementary metal-oxide semicon-
ductor (CMOS) or charge-coupled device (CCD),
with a resolution of 320×240 (QVGA) or 640×480
(VGA) pixels. However, the resolution is still sig-
nificantly lower than that of an RGB image using
the same technology.
2.1.2 Direct ToF
DToF is a method that measures the time it takes
for laser light to be fired directly at an object
and returned to the sensor. The moment the laser
is fired, the electronic clock is activated. Then,
the pulse bounces off the target and is partially
picked up by the photodetector. By measuring the
time lapse ∆ T , the distance d between the out-
going light pulse and the reflected light pulse is
calculated with
d = c∆T
2 (12)
To achieve higher sensitivity and lower power
consumption, dToF usually adopts single photon
avalanche diodes (SPADs) instead of Avalanche
Photodiodes (APDs) as photodetectors. Due to
limitations in the size of the chip and its auxiliary
circuits, the pixel count of SPAD arrays is much
lower than that of iToF.
LiDAR, an acronym for Light Detection and
Ranging, despite being based on the same work-
ing principle as dToF, is frequently listed as a
distinct depth sensing technology due to some
of its peculiar design and setup. For instance,
conventional LiDAR continuously scans the envi-
ronment utilizing mechanical components (e.g.,
spinning mirrors). Another type is MEMS LiDAR,
which uses micromirrors controlled by micro-
electromechanical systems (MEMS) to scan the
environment. This type of LiDAR is smaller and
cheaper than mechanical LiDARs but has lower
FoV and range. As a still developing technology,
OPA LiDARs use optical phased arrays (OPAs) to
steer the laser beam electronically, and they have
the potential to be small, cheap, and versatile.
Different from the techniques mentioned above,
global shutter flash LiDARs, also referred to as
flash LiDARs or ToF LiDARs, use arrays of lasers
firing simultaneously to create a 3D image of the
surrounding environment, just like iToF, thereby
improving frame rate and imaging efficiency for
applications such as autonomous driving. This
technology enables the integration of dToF into
consumer electronic devices. We provide a com-
parison summarizing the different types of LiDAR
in Table. 1 and the schematic diagram of each
method in Fig. 4.
In essence, LiDAR still employs the dToF prin-
ciple, and the two terms of dToF and LiDAR
are even interchangeable in many scenarios (e.g.,
Apple refers to the dToF sensor in iPad Pro
and iPhone 12 Pro as a LiDAR scanner). How-
ever, LiDAR technology is rapidly evolving, and
new state-of-the-art LiDARs are constantly being
developed, thus potentially having more applica-
tions in various scenarios. For instance, the Innovi-
zOne MEMS LiDAR, manufactured by EDOM
technology, achieves an angular resolution of up to
0.1◦ × 0.1◦, producing much denser point clouds
than before.
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
Titing
Mirror
Objects
Laser
Receiver
(a) Principle of mechanical LiDAR
MEMS mirror
Designed 
scanning
 (b) Principle of MEMS LiDAR
Seperator 
or Diffuser
Laser
2D array of 
detector
Target
Receiver 
optics
x
yz
Spot or Flood
illumination
(c) Principle of flash LiDAR
f
f
f
f
f
f
f
f
f
f
f
f
C
q
Phase 
modulator
LaserLaser Optical beam
splitters
q Antenna array (d) Principle of OPA LiDAR
Fig. 4: Schematic diagram of LiDAR systems with different imaging principles.
Table 2: Characteristics of iToF and dToF.
Parameter iT oF dT oF
Principle Using phase shift between emitted
and reflected light to determine distance.
Using stop watch method
to calculate time lapse.
Detector type PMDs: 6 ∼ 100µm pixel size SPADs / APDs
Depth calculation In-pixel calculation Histogram analysis
Performance Long integration time Fast acquisition
Range Short-medium Longer
Range ambiguity Yes No
Pixel count Large Smaller
Accuracy Linearly related to distance Higher
Power consumption Low Higher
Portability Generally compact Traditionally larger
Cost Medium Higher
2.1.3 Comparative Analysis of dToF
and iToF
Here, we provide their characteristics in Table 2.
Besides, we conduct a comparative analysis on the
following aspects.
Accuracy. iToF cameras typically provide
accurate distance measurements within a spe-
cific range. Its measurement error is theoretically
positively correlated with the target distance.
Currently, the accuracy of mass-produced iToF
cameras can be controlled within 1%, e.g., Helios2
ToF 3D Camera with Sony’s IMX556 DepthSense
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
ToF has an accuracy of less than 5mm and a
precision of less than 2mm at 1m camera dis-
tance. At the same time, dToF (LiDAR) can
achieve millimeter-level accuracy even over longer
distances. Therefore. for short-range applications,
both iToF and dToF can achieve comparable accu-
racy, although they may fall short of structured
light cameras. However, a key advantage of LiDAR
is that its accuracy substantially remains constant
regardless of distance, as discussed in Sec 2.1.3.
This attribute positions LiDAR measurements
as reliably accurate in long-range applications,
distinguishing them from other technologies.
Range and Power consumption. iToF
cameras are generally suitable for short to
medium-range applications. The effective range
may vary but typically within a few to tens
of meters, depending on the specific design and
implementation. Because of these characteristics,
ToF cameras are often designed to be power-
efficient and, therefore, suitable for consumer-
grade devices. In contrast, LiDAR systems can
achieve longer ranges, making them suitable for
applications like autonomous vehicles and long-
range mapping. Consequently, they are commonly
employed in scenarios where power consumption
is less critical.
Portability. iToF cameras are inherently
compact and lightweight, making them suitable
for integration into portable devices such as smart-
phones, tablets, and wearable gadgets. Meanwhile,
LiDAR, traditionally larger, is undergoing minia-
turization trends, especially with the development
of solid-state LiDAR, making it increasingly appli-
cable in portable and handheld devices.
Applications. Due to the properties pecu-
liar to each, the two families of sensors are
usually involved in different downstream applica-
tions. Specifically, iToF sensors are the best fit for
AR/VR experiences, which mainly focus on nar-
row, close-range environments or, in general, for
any applications running in a constrained space
(e.g., bin picking with a robotic arm). On the
contrary, dToF is preferable in contexts requiring
long-range perception, e.g., the automotive one
with ADAS or autonomous driving systems. It is
worth noting that there is an overlap in the oper-
ating ranges of iToF and dToF, i.e., both can be
used for applications such as AR/VR (e.g., Kinect
v2 with iToF and iPad Pro with dToF) when
performing medium-range sensing.
Though both imaging systems currently excel
in their respective application domains, advance-
ments in technology are steadily bridging the gap
between their performance metrics, leading to a
growing overlap in their practical uses.
2.2 Problem Formulation
Although ToF cameras have many advantages,
they also bring some inherent limitations, such as
multipath interference Gupta, Nayar, Hullin, and
Martin (2015); Gutierrez-Barragan et al. (2021),
flying pixels Qiao, Ge, Yao, Deng, and Zhou (2020)
and wiggling errors Hussmann, Knoll, and Edeler
(2013). Hand-crafted models can deal with some
issues, e.g., depth correction, but others require
additional cues, such as those available in RGB
images.
The goal of RGB guided ToF imaging is to
recover a high-quality depth map Zhq from the
acquired low-quality depth map Zlq : ΩZ ⊂ Ω 7→
R+ and high-resolution color image I : Ω ⊂ R2 7→
R3
+. Depending on the setup of ranging systems,
low-quality depth maps can be either dense, yet
at low resolution, or sparse. Besides, we assume
all LQ depth maps and the corresponding color
images are correctly aligned. This is possible if
the RGB-D system is calibrated, i.e., the relative
pose between the two color and depth cameras is
known. If a deep neural network Φ γ with param-
eters γ is deployed for RGB guided ToF imaging,
the task can be modeled as
ˆZhq = Φγ(Zlq, I) (13)
where ˆZhq is the prediction of latent HR depth
map.
The network parameters γ are updated during
training of Φ, by solving the following optimiza-
tion problem:
ˆγ = arg min
γ
L(Zhq, ˆZhq) (14)
where L is an objective function, usually minimiz-
ing the distance between the prediction and the
ground truth depth.
2.3 Evaluation metrics
As for most computer vision tasks, for RGB
guided ToF imaging, it is necessary to employ
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
appropriate evaluation metrics. The most com-
monly used measures for both the two sub-tasks,
i.e., GDSR and GDC, are root mean squared error
(RMSE) and mean absolute error (MAE):
RMSE(mm) =
s
1
N
X
p∈N
(Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq)2 (15)
NMAE(mm) = 1
N
X
p∈N
|Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq| (16)
with p being a single pixel in the depth map.
Metrics for GDSR. In addition to the above
metrics, mean squared error (MSE) is frequently
utilized, which has a similar role to RMSE:
MSE = 1
N
X
p∈N
|Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq|2 (17)
Furthermore, with a short-range ToF sensor,
GDSR focuses on recovering depth maps with
desirable details. As a result, peak signal-to-
noise ratio (PNSR) and structural similarity index
(SSIM) are also sometimes used to assess the
quality of depth maps, which are defined as:
PSNR = 10log10( Z2
max
MSE ) (18)
SSIM(p, q) = (2µpµq + C1)(2σxy + C2)
(µ2p + µ2q + C1)(σ2p + σ2q + C2)
(19)
with Zmax being the maximum depth value; q is
a neighbor of pixel p; µp and µq denote the mean
values of HQ depth maps and the corresponding
ground truth, respectively; σ2
p and σ2
q are the vari-
ance; C1 and C2 are constants used to maintain
the stability of the division. The smaller the pixel
value difference between the two depth maps, the
higher the PSNR.
Metrics for GDC. Sparse depth measure-
ments are often captured from a long-range ToF
LiDAR, so there are several task-specific metrics
for GDC, including RMSE of the inverse depth
(iRMSE), MAE of the inverse depth (iMAE),
which are defined by
iRMSE( 1
km ) =
s
1
n
X
n∈N
(Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq)2 (20)
Dual-branch Framework
RGBD Guided ToF Imaging
Depth Super-resolution Depth Completion
Dual-branch Framework
Hybrid Methods
Auxiliary-based Methods
Fusion-focused Methods
Unsupervised Methods
Affinity-based Methods
Unsupervised Methods
Uncertainty Guided 
Methods
Auxiliary-based Methods
Fusion-focused Methods
Fig. 5 : Taxonomy of RGB guided ToF imaging
techniques. We identify 5 and 6 main categories
for GDSR and GDC methods.
iMAE( 1
km ) = 1
N
X
p∈N
| 1
Z p
hq
− 1
ˆZ p
hq
| (21)
When the evaluation of deep models is per-
formed on indoor datasets, e.g., NYU-v2 (Sil-
berman, Hoiem, Kohli, & Fergus, 2012), mean
absolute relative error (REL) and thresholded
accuracy are more popular
REL(mm) = 1
N
X
n∈N
|Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq|
Z p
hq
(22)
σ = max(
Z p
hq
ˆZ p
hq
,
ˆZ p
hq
Z p
hq
) < th (23)
with th being a given threshold.
2.4 Taxonomy
Figure 5 anticipates the proposed taxonomy for
methods we will survey in this paper. On the
one hand, from the figure, we can already high-
light some common trends in GDSR and GDC
tasks. Specifically, we can identify the category
of Dual-branch Frameworks in both, i.e., those
deploying two main branches for processing RGB
and depth cues separately, as well as the cate-
gory of Auxiliary-based Methods – those exploiting
multi-task learning to improve the accuracy of
the predicted depth map – Fusion-focused Meth-
ods which mainly study the fusion strategy for
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
combining color and depth features, and the
Unsupervised Methods not requiring ground-truth
labels at training time. On the other hand, we
identify some trends that are peculiar to one of
the two tasks: specifically, for GDSR, we have
Hybrid Methods , focusing on obtaining explain-
able models to run the super-resolution process;
for GDC, Affinity-based Methods developed are
characterized by the used of Spatial Propagation
Networks (SPNs) which learn affinity matrices
for propagating depth across neighboring pixels,
and Uncertainty-guided Methods explicitly involve
uncertainty modeling to improve the results. Each
category will be introduced and discussed in detail
in Sections 3 and 4, for GDSR and GDC, respec-
tively.
3 Guided Depth
Super-Resolution
In this section, we present and discuss recent deep
learning-based approaches. Initially, researchers
exploited general architectures with two branches
to extract features from RGB and depth sepa-
rately, which are fused in a naive manner, i.e.,
by means of concatenation or summation. Numer-
ous novel architectures and fusion schemes have
been proposed to boost network accuracy. From
the perspective of data requirements, depth super-
resolution methods are divided into supervised
and unsupervised learning. The difference between
the two paradigms is that the former requires
labeled input data, while the latter does not.
For what concerns supervised learning, we classify
existing works into three categories, depending
on the main contribution they bring to the lit-
erature, in terms of (i) Dual-branch framework;
(ii) optimization-inspired architecture; (iii) aux-
iliary learning; (iv) multi-modal fusion scheme.
For unsupervised learning, the emphasis is on
the fusion strategy and loss functions. These five
categories are listed in the top branch of Fig. 5.
Supervised methods are supplemented by
labeled data so that the task can be viewed as
a regression problem. Thus, deep models aim to
learn depth predictions as close as possible to the
ground truth depth labels.
3.1 Dual-branch Framework
Since the depth sensor captures the same scene
as the RGB camera, the obtained two images are
geometrically similar and complementary. There-
fore, how to extract meaningful features from
the two modalities through designed algorithms
is the key to depth super-resolution. Intuitively,
Y. Li, Huang, Ahuja, and Yang (2019) design a
deep joint filter (DJFR) which contains two sub-
networks for extracting depth and RGB features,
respectively. After concatenating the two streams,
the fused information is decoded by another sub-
network and outputs the predicted depth, as seen
in Fig. 6.
Multi-scale information is crucial for many
low-level vision tasks, including GDSR, which can
recover images from different scales through rich
hierarchical features. The multi-scale guided con-
volutional network (MSG-Net) (Hui, Loy, & Tang,
2016) is the first work to super-solve depth maps
using multi-scale guidance, which progressively
enhances depth details from high- to low-level.
Inspired by this idea, numerous methods utiliz-
ing multi-scale guidance have been proposed and
attained significantly improved performance. For
instance, a novel deep network for depth map
super-resolution (DepthSR) proposed by Guo et
al. (2019) leverages a residual U-Net architec-
ture (Ronneberger, Fischer, & Brox, 2015), where
hierarchical guidance is introduced at each scale,
to recover HR depth maps. Zuo, Fang, Yang,
Shang, and Wu (2019) design a multi-scale archi-
tecture with a guide similar to MSG-Net (Hui et
al., 2016) where dense layers (Huang, Liu, Van
Der Maaten, & Weinberger, 2017) are employed
to revisit the features from all higher levels at
a given scale. Also, guided by RGB images, the
multi-scale fusion residual network for GDSR
(MFR-SR) proposed by Zuo, Wu, et al. (2019)
progressively upsamples depth maps in multiple
scales with global and local residual learning.
T. Li, Lin, Dong, and Zhang (2020) employ a
multi-scale strategy with the proposed symmetric
unit (SU) as the basic component of the network.
With SU, it can effectively deal with texture-
less and edge features in depth images. Unlike
previous works, Zuo et al. (2021) propose a two-
stream multi-scale network, MIG-net, including
three branches, i.e., intensity, depth, and gradient
branches. At each scale, the depth and gradient
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
conv
relu
conv
relu
conv
conv
relu
conv
relu
conv
TCNN
GCNN
conv
relu
conv
relu
conv
FCNN
Filtering 
Image
Target 
Image
Guidance 
Image
Fig. 6 : DJFR architecture (Y. Li et al., 2019)
belonging to dual-branch framework. It employs
a typical dual-branch auto-encoder framework,
where the guide and source features are extracted
from the two sub-networks in the encoder.
features are iteratively refined by the guide. Zhong
et al. (2021) introduce an attention-based hierar-
chical multi-modal fusion network (AHMF) where
a bi-directional hierarchical feature collaboration
module is proposed to make full use of multi-scale
features. In this module, features from different
levels are aggregated so that low and high level
spatial information can collaborate to improve
each other. K. Wang et al. (2023) present a novel
method that exploits pyramid structure to capture
multi-scale features so that HR depth maps can be
progressively recovered. Yuan et al. (2023b) pro-
pose a structure flow-guided framework for GDSR,
whose core is to learn a structure flow map to
guide structure representation transfer. In this
method, a flow-enhance pyramid edge attention
network is introduced to learn multi-scale features
for sharp edge reconstruction.
Using a coarse-to-fine scheme is another com-
mon solution for GDSR, consisting of building
a multi-stage network to enhance depth maps
progressively. The definitions of the multi-scale
strategy and the coarse-to-fine scheme may over-
lap in some approaches. Thus, we distinguish
them according to the focus of the works. Wen,
Sheng, Li, Lin, and Feng (2019) propose a coarse-
to-fine neural network with two stages. In the
coarse stage, the model learns large filter ker-
nels to obtain less accurate results, further refined
by smaller filter kernels in the fine stage. In
Zuo et al. (2020), the filtering and refinement
of depth-guided intensity features and intensity-
guided depth features are iteratively conducted
DCN
Bicubic Recurrent
Recurrent Mechanism 
Deep Contrastive Network 
 Deep Contrastive Network 
Recurrent Mechanism
Prediction
LR
Coarse-to-Fine
Fig. 7 : RSAG architecture (Yuan et al., 2023a)
belonging to dual-branch framework. It progres-
sively refines the depth using a coarse-to-fine
strategy.
in multiple stages through the proposed depth-
guided affine transformation. The network can
reduce artifacts produced by distribution gaps
between depth maps and the corresponding guide.
Ye et al. (2020) introduce a multi-branch aggrega-
tion network with multiple stages to reconstruct
sharp depth boundaries. Specifically, they design
three parallel branches – the reconstruction, the
color, and the multi-scale branches – in each stage.
X. Song et al. (2020) develop a coarse-to-fine
framework consisting of several sub-modules that
can gradually extract the high-frequency features
from depth maps. Each sub-module employs a
channel attention strategy to obtain informative
features. Besides, the framework further improves
the depth quality through Total Generalized Vari-
ation (TGV) term and input loss. In L. He et
al. (2021), a high-frequency guidance branch is
developed to adaptively extract the HF informa-
tion and reduce the LF components. The HF
components are then fused with depth features
by means of concatenation. Yuan et al. (2023a)
propose a recurrent structure attention guidance
framework (RSAG) that utilizes both multi-scale
and multi-stage strategies, shown in Fig. 7. In this
framework, a deep contrastive network with multi-
scale filters is designed to adaptively separate HF
and LF features.
Instead of deploying spatially-invariant kernels
in vanilla convolutional neural networks (CNNs),
some methods design learnable kernels to boost
the GDSR performance. Kim, Ponce, and Ham
(2021) propose a deformable network that pro-
vides a custom convolution kernel for each pixel
by computing neighborhood weights. The ker-
nel weights can be obtained not only by cal-
culating the pixels in regular positions (e.g.,
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
8-neighborhood), but also by calculating its sub-
pixels after interpolation. X. Wang, Chen, Ni,
Tong, and Wang (2022) introduce a continuous
depth representation whose core is the proposed
geometric spatial aggregator (GSA). The GSA
comprises two parts: (1) the geometric encoder
using the scale-modulated distance field to build
the correlation between pixels and (2) the learn-
able kernel learning typical texture pattern pro-
cessing prior. Thanks to the continuous represen-
tation, the model can super-solve depth at an
arbitrary scale. Zhong, Liu, Jiang, Zhao, and Ji
(2023a) design a kernel generation network that
can cope with inconsistent structures between
RGB and depth.
To increase the interpretability, J. Tang, Chen,
and Zeng (2021) regards GDSR as a neural
implicit interpolation problem, which can map
continuous coordinates of LR depth and HR color
images into latent codes. Meanwhile, they learn
the interpolation weights to establish a unified
framework to yield the interpolation weights and
values. To promote the deployment of dToF cam-
eras in mobile devices, Y. Li et al. (2022) perform
depth estimation from a lightweight ToF sensor
and RGB image (DELTAR). In this work, Point-
Net (Qi, Su, Mo, & Guibas, 2017) and Efficient
B5 (Tan & Le, 2019) are used to extract depth and
RGB features, respectively, fused at the decoder
stage through the proposed transformer-based
fusion module.
3.2 Hybrid Architecture
As neural networks are usually described as black-
box models, some researchers combine optimiza-
tion methods to obtain explainable frameworks.
Riegler, Ferstl, R¨ uther, and Horst (2016) present
a novel network consisting of two sub-networks,
i.e., a fully-convolutional network and a primal-
dual network, with the first yielding HR depth
maps and weights and the latter producing the
final results with a non-local variational method.
As an optimization-inspired network, a
weighted analysis sparse representation (WASR)
model (S. Gu et al., 2019) is designed for GDSR.
It leverages a neural network to learn filter
parameterizations and non-linear functions to
build more flexible stage-wise operations. Inspired
by the multi-modal convolutional sparse coding
model (P. Song et al., 2019), X. Deng and Dragotti
Feature Exraction
Bicubic
Affinity 
graph
Graph-based 
optimisation
Loss function
Estimation
Fig. 8: LGR architecture (De Lutio et al., 2022)
belonging to optimization-inspired architecture.
The optimization layer is plugged into the end of
the network to predict the high-resolution depth.
(2020) develop a network that can adaptively
separate the shared features between different
modalities from the unique features existing in a
single modality. Marivani, Tsiligianni, Cornelis,
and Deligiannis (2020) propose a deep unfolding
network to efficiently compute the convolutional
sparse coding with the guide.
Z. Zhao et al. (2022) introduce discrete cosine
transform (DCT) into the proposed neural net-
work to make the model explainable. This model
utilizes DCT to tackle the optimization issue for
GDSR by reconstructing the multi-channel HR
depth features. Another advantage of using DCT
is that it can make network design easier because
it does not need to learn the mapping function
between LR/HR image pairs, as it explicitly mod-
els it. De Lutio et al. (2022) propose a novel
architecture learning graph regularization (LGR)
with a neural network to perform GDSR, as shown
in Fig. 8. First, a network extracts features from
the source and the guide. A graph constructed
using such features is then sent to a differentiable
optimization layer to regularize it. Combining
the advantages of model-based and learning-based
methods, M. Zhou et al. (2023) propose a memory-
augmented deep unfolding network in which local
implicit prior and global implicit prior are intro-
duced based on a maximal posterior view. To fur-
ther prevent information loss, long short-term unit
(LSTM) is employed in the persistent memory
mechanism. Metzger, Daudt, and Schindler (2022)
propose integrating guided anisotropic diffusion
into a CNN to enhance depth discontinuities in
the depth images. It has a fixed inference time and
memory footprint, given a scale factor.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
3.3 Auxiliary-based Methods
Auxiliary learning, also known as multi-task learn-
ing, aims to find or design auxiliary tasks that
can improve the performance of one or several
primary tasks. Driven by its recent progress,
several works attempt to exploit auxiliary task
learning to upsample depth maps. B. Sun et al.
(2021) propose a knowledge distillation approach
where depth estimation is employed as an auxil-
iary task during training to improve the results.
As a representative method shown in Fig. 9,
BridgeNet (Q. Tang et al., 2021) explores a
paradigm where the association between monoc-
ular depth estimate (MDE) and depth super-
resolution (DSR) is exploited deeply. To make the
two tasks work together, they design two auto-
encoders, namely DSRNet and MDENet, with
information interaction at the encoder stage. In
MDENet, a high-frequency attention bridge is
proposed to capture HF information which can
guide depth upsampling in the other task. In con-
trast, the content guidance is provided by DSRNet
to guide monocular depth estimates. Considering
the distinct learning curves of the two sub-tasks,
they optimize the two sub-networks separately.
In addition to auxiliary learning, some
researchers consider using auxiliary guidance from
color images to improve depth quality. Based
on the importance of edge information in depth
upsampling, Z. Wang et al. (2020) propose an
edge-guided depth upsampling framework that
leverages edge maps as the guide to recover HR
depth maps. For training, the ground truth edge
map is computed by the Canny operator on the
corresponding HR depth map.
Differently from most existing GDSR meth-
ods, Voynov et al. (2019) attempt to gauge the
upsampled depth quality through renderings of
surface normal maps. More specifically, a visual
appearance-based loss is proposed, which can
assist a baseline network in yielding more visually
pleasing results.
3.4 Fusion-focused Methods
How to effectively fuse information from differ-
ent modalities is critical to obtain high-quality
depth maps. Intuitively, we can perform multi-
modal fusion with a simple operation, such as
concatenation (De Lutio et al., 2022; J. Tang et
AH AH AH CGCG
AH CGHigh-Frequency Attention Bridge Content Guidance Bridge
Color Image
LR Depth
Monocular Depth
Upsampled Depth
Monocular Depth Estimation
Depth Super-resolution
Fig. 9 : BridgeNet architecture (Q. Tang et al.,
2021) belonging to auxiliary-based methods. The
BridgeNet consists of a monocular depth estima-
tion subnetwork and a guided depth upsampling
subnetwork.
al., 2021; Z. Wang et al., 2020). However, these
fusion schemes can not selectively transfer HF
features from the guide to the target, and may
even result in texture-copying artifacts. There-
fore, researchers design different fusion schemes to
alleviate the issue, mainly grouped into three cat-
egories: early, late, and multi-level fusion. T. Li
et al. (2020) present a correlation-controlled color
guidance block (block) to fuse the multi-modal
information. Zhong et al. (2021) design a multi-
modal attention-based fusion strategy, including
a feature enhancement block and a feature recali-
bration block, with the former paying more atten-
tion to meaningful features extracted from depth
maps and color images and the latter aiming
at rescaling multi-modal features. This strategy
can effectively avoid the texture-copying effect in
the final prediction. Z. Zhao et al. (2022) deploy
an enhanced spatial attention block to transfer
meaningful structural information from RGB to
depth. Yuan et al. (2023a) develop a recurrent
structure attention block, where the latest depth
estimate and its corresponding HR color image
are taken as the input, to obtain useful HF fea-
tures of the color image. K. Wang et al. (2023)
propose a multi-perspective cross-guided fusion
filter block, to improve depth features gradually
by fusing the structure details in RGB images.
In this block, spatial representations from vari-
ous views are learned to capture depth salient
structures further. Moreover, a color-depth cross-
attention module is employed to achieve edge
preservation. Zhong et al. (2023a) propose a multi-
scale guided filtering module to refine the depth
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
map in a coarse-to-fine manner. To obtain sta-
ble depth predictions, Z. Sun et al. (2023) con-
duct cross-modal fusion in a multi-frame manner,
i.e., dToF depth video super-resolution (DVSR)
and histogram video super-resolution (HVSR), to
upsample LR depth maps. Qiao, Ge, Zhang, et al.
(2023) propose an Adaptive Feature Fusion Mod-
ule (AFFM), which enables the recovery of fine
details from the HR guide and the LR depth maps.
Z. Zhao et al. (2023) propose a Spherical Space
feature Decomposition network (SSDNet), which
projects encoded features onto the spherical space.
This strategy allows for separating and align-
ing domain-shared and domain-private features,
respectively.
3.5 Unsupervised Methods
Since collecting training data paired with anno-
tations is labor-intensive and time-consuming,
researchers seek to solve the issue by leveraging
self-supervised learning, allowing training mod-
els without labels. In Lutio, D’aronco, Wegner,
and Schindler (2019), GDSR is regarded as a
pixel-wise mapping from the source to the tar-
get, implemented as a multi-layer perceptron. This
formulation can be trained in a fully unsuper-
vised manner with the constraint of having the
LR source. Shacht, Danon, Fogel, and Cohen-
Or (2021) present a single-pair method that can
upsample depth maps even when the input pairs
are misaligned. During training, patches cropped
from the input pairs are utilized as pseudo-label
data to enable weakly supervised learning. To
improve generalization, X. Dong, Yokoya, Wang,
and Uezato (2022) propose a mutual modula-
tion super-resolution model (MMSR), where a
cross-modality modulation strategy using adap-
tive filters transfers meaningful features from one
modality to the other, as shown in Fig. 10.
In this mutual modulation, the spatial relation-
ship between the corresponding pixels of the two
modalities is fully exploited. Moreover, a cycle
consistency loss is adopted to enforce the target
faithful to the source. Differently from previous
unsupervised methods for GDSR, Shin, Shin, and
Jeon (2023) introduce a pretext task into this
field. Through the proposed scene structure guid-
ance network, explicit structure features of color
images can be obtained, which, together with
the corresponding LR depth maps, serve as the
LR Depth
… 
… 
Mutual
Modulation
Prediction
RGB
Cycle 
Consistency Downsample
Fig. 10: MMSR framework (X. Dong et al., 2022)
belonging to unsupervised methods. The MMSR
adopts the cycle consistency loss to train the net-
work in a self-supervised manner.
input of a baseline network to produce high-
resolution depth maps. J. Wang, Liu, and Wen
(2023) construct an adversarial network where the
dependency between RGB images and depth maps
is fully exploited to enhance the depth. Further,
the optimal transport theory is introduced into
the framework to boost depth enhancement per-
formance. Qiao, Ge, Zhao, et al. (2023) exploit
a contrast learning scheme to extract unique fea-
tures from the guidance, which can boost the
GDSR performance based on a baseline network.
To conclude this section, Tab. 3 collects any
of the methods discussed so far, divided into five
categories. For each method, the venue and year
are reported, together with a short description of
the key idea behind it.
4 Guided Depth Completion
Pivotal works on depth completion (Chodosh et
al., 2019; Uhrig et al., 2017) only take depth
maps as input. However, due to the sparsity
of depth maps obtained from long-range LiDAR
measurements, a substantial amount of details,
such as object boundaries, are lost. Thus, restoring
these details is difficult on densified depth maps,
even using deep learning. Therefore, researchers
started exploiting additional modalities captur-
ing the same scene to guide the completion of
sparse depth maps. In practice, color images can
provide rich texture, scene structure, and object
details, thus allowing for the extraction of suffi-
cient cues to enhance depth completion. Besides,
color images can also offer various auxiliary cues,
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
Paradigm Method Reference Key IdeaDual-branch Framework
DJFR (Y. Li et al., 2019) TPAMI-2019 Introduce two sub-networks for extracting features from the target and guidance images. Following theconcatenation operation, the fused information is fed into another sub-network for the predicted depth.
DMSG (Hui et al., 2016) ECCV-2016 First work to super-solve depth maps using multi-scale guidance, which progressively enhances depth details fromhigh- to low-level.DepthSR (Guo et al., 2019) TIP-2019 Exploit a residual U-Net structure, where hierarchical guidance is used at each scale, to recover HR depth maps.
MGD (Zuo, Fang, et al., 2019) TCSVT-2019Propose a multi-scale architecture based on dense layers that aim to revisit the features from all higher levels at agiven scale.
MFR-SR (Zuo, Wu, et al., 2019) TCSVT-2019Combine global and local residual learning to upsamples depth maps from coarse to fine via multi-scale frequencysynthesis.
MIG-net (Zuo et al., 2021) TMM-2021 Introduce a two-stream multi-scale network to extract features in the image and gradient domains, where the depthfeatures and gradient features are alternatively complemented with each other.
SFG (Yuan et al., 2023b) AAAI-2023 Propose a structure flow-guided framework for GDSR, whose key point is to learn a structure flow map to guidestructure representation transferring.
CCFN (Wen et al., 2019) TIP-2019 Propose a coarse-to-fine neural network with two stages. In the first stage, the model learns large filter kernels toobtain coarse results, which are further refined by smaller filter kernels in the second stage.
CGN (Zuo et al., 2020) TMM-2020 With the proposed depth-guided affine transformation, the intensity-guided depth feature filtering and refinementare carried out iteratively in multiple stages.
PMBANet (Ye et al., 2020) TIP-2020 Introduce a multi-branch aggregation network with multiple stages to reconstruct sharp depth boundaries.
IRLF (X. Song et al., 2020) CVPR-2020Develop a coarse-to-fine framework consisting of several sub-modules with channel attention strategies.
DKN (Kim et al., 2021) IJCV-2021 Design a deformable kernel network that obtains a kernel for each pixel based on the neighborhood weights.
FDSR (L. He et al., 2021) CVPR-2021 Explore high-frequency (HF) information via an HF guidance branch, where the HF information is fused with depthfeatures to improve the performance.
GeoDSR (X. Wang et al., 2022) AAAI-2023Introduce a continuous depth representation to effectively implement scale-continuous and spatial-continuousupsampling in guided depth super-resolution.
DAGF (Zhong et al., 2023a) TNNLS-2023Design a kernel generation network that can cope with inconsistent structures between RGB and depth, where amulti-scale guided filtering module is proposed to refine the depth map in a coarse-to-fine manner.
DCSR (Y. Wang, Yang, & Yue, 2023) Display-2023Proposes a depth map continuous SR framework that can achieve resolution adaptation at arbitrary SR ratios.
PAC (H. Su et al., 2019) CVPR-2019 Present a pixel-adaptive convolution operation for deep joint image upsampling.
DELTAR (Y. Li et al., 2022) ECCV-2022Propose a transformer-based architecture with two branches, which can extract and fuse depth and RGB featuresefficiently. Besides, a cross-modal calibration is performed to align RGB and depth.
Hybrid Model
DPDN (Riegler, Ferstl, et al., 2016) BMVC-2016Use two sub-networks. one based on a fully-convolutional structure produces HR depth maps and weights.Another uses a non-local variational method to get final results.
DG-CMM (S. Gu et al., 2019) TPAMI-2019Propose a weighted analysis sparse representation (WASR) model and a neural network to learn filterparameterizations and non-linear functions to build flexible stage-wise operations.
CUNet (X. Deng & Dragotti, 2020) TPAMI-2020Develop a multi-modal convolutional sparse coding (MCSC) models to solve the general multi-modal imagerestoration and multi-modal image fusion problems.
LMCSC (Marivani et al., 2020) TIP-2020Propose a deep unfolding network using guided image SR that exploits information from two modalities.
LGR (De Lutio et al., 2022) CVPR-2022Propose a novel architecture combining a neural network and graph-based optimization to perform GDSR.
DCTNet (Z. Zhao et al., 2022) CVPR-2022Utilizes discrete cosine transform (DCT) to tackle the optimization issue for GDSR by reconstructing themulti-channel HR depth features.
DaDa (Metzger et al., 2022) CVPR-2023Suggest incorporating guided anisotropic diffusion into a CNN to improve depth discontinuities in depth images.Given a scale factor, the inference time and memory demands of the method are fixed.
MADUNet (M. Zhou et al., 2023) IJCV-2023Propose a memory-augmented deep unfolding network where the introduction of local and global implicit priors isbased on a maximal a posterior view.
Auxiliary-based
CTKT (B. Sun et al., 2021) CVPR-2021Propose a knowledge distillation method that uses the depth estimate auxiliary task during training for better results.
BridgeNet (Q. Tang et al., 2021) ACM MM-2021Explore a paradigm where the association between monocular depth estimate (MDE) and depth super-resolutionare used to advance the performance of depth map super-resolution.
DSR-N (Z. Wang et al., 2020) PR-2020 Propose a depth upsampling framework that leverages edge information as the guide to recover HR depth maps.
PDSR (Voynov et al., 2019) ICCV-2019Attempt to measure the upsampled depth quality using renderings of surface normal maps.
PDR-Net (P. Liu, Zhang, Meng, Gao, & Wang, 2022) Neurocomputing-2022Proposes a progressive depth reconstruction network to further enhance the performance of DMSR.
SVLRM (J. Dong et al., 2021) TPAMI-2021Propose a new joint filtering method based on a spatially variant linear representation model where the target image islinearly represented by the guidance image.
Fusion-focused
JIIF (J. Tang et al., 2021) MM-2021 Considers GDSR to be a neural implicit interpolation problem that can convert latent codes from continuouscoordinates in LR depth and HR color images.
MSSN (T. Li et al., 2020) PR-2020 Present a multi-scale strategy with the proposed symmetric unit as the basic component of the network, which caneffectively deal with textureless and edge features in depth images.
AHMF (Zhong et al., 2021) TIP-2021 Propose a hierarchical network based on a bi-directional hierarchical feature collaboration module, where low- andhigh-level spatial information can work together to improve each other.
RSAG (Yuan et al., 2023a) AAAI-2023 Propose a recurrent structure attention guidance framework that employs both multi-scale and multi-stagestrategies. A deep contrastive network with multi-scale filters is used to separate HF and LF features.
JGF (K. Wang et al., 2023) PR-2023 Present a novel method that uses pyramid structure to capture multi-scale features, allowing HR depth maps to berecovered progressively.DVSR (Z. Sun et al., 2023) CVPR-2023Propose a multi-frame scheme to upsample LR dToF videos with corresponding HR RGB sequences.
SSDNet (Z. Zhao et al., 2023) ICCV-2023Propose a spherical contrast refinement module to enhance depth details from RGB features.
DSR-EI (Qiao, Ge, Zhang, et al., 2023) CVIU-2023Propose AFFM to adaptively fuse discriminative cross-modality features.
Unsupervised
P2P (Lutio et al., 2019) ICCV-2019 GDSR is regarded as a pixel-wise mapping from source to target and implemented as a multi-layer perceptron.
CMSR (Shacht et al., 2021) CVPR-2021Present a single-pair method that can upsample depth maps even when the input pairs are misaligned, wherepatches cropped from the input pairs are utilized as pseudo-label data to enable weakly supervised learning.
MMSR (X. Dong et al., 2022) ECCV-2022A cross-modality modulation strategy using adaptive filters is developed to transfer significant features from onemodality to the other in a proposed mutual modulation super-resolution model.
DEDE (J. Wang et al., 2023) TIP-2023 Design an adversarial network where the relationship between depth maps and RGB images are fully exploitedto improve the depth.
SSGnet (Shin et al., 2023) AAAI-2023 Explicit structure features of color images can be extracted using the suggested scene structure guidance network,and these features—along with the corresponding LR depth maps—serve as the input of a base network.
CMPNet (Qiao, Ge, Zhao, et al., 2023) NN-2023Develop an autoencoder-based framework with contrastive and reconstruction lossesto reduce information redundancy.
Table 3: List of Guided Depth Super-Resolution methods, divided according to the five outlined cate-
gories.
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
such as semantics, monocular depth, and sur-
face normal. Similar to GDSR, we divide GDC
into two categories: supervised and unsupervised
methods. Supervised methods can be further clas-
sified into dual-branch architectures, spatial prop-
agation networks, auxiliary-based methods, and
uncertainty guidance. These six categories are
listed in the bottom branch of Fig. 5.
Most existing approaches employ supervised
learning for this task, which typically constructs
image pairs from dense maps and their sparse ver-
sion for training. With dense depth information
being used as annotation, deep neural networks
are trained to solve a regression problem, as done
for GDSR.
4.1 Dual-branch Architecture
The dual-branch architecture is common in GDC.
It utilizes two encoders to extract features from
RGB and sparse depth maps, and then the cross-
modal information is sent to a single decoder
after aggregation. In this latter, a designed infor-
mation fusion strategy can also be incorporated.
Thus, two folds must be focused on: effective
representation learning and information fusion.
Jaritz, De Charette, Wirbel, Perrotton, and
Nashashibi (2018) employ a dual-branch archi-
tecture based on a modified version of the neu-
ral architecture search network (NASNet) (Zoph,
Vasudevan, Shlens, & Le, 2018). First, the features
from RGB images and depth maps are extracted
using two NASNet encoders. Then, the interme-
diate features are fused in a late fusion scheme
through channel-wise concatenation and fed into
a decoder, yielding the final dense estimate. In
this framework, validity masks are demonstrated
to fail further to improve performance for GDC
in large neural networks. To address the issue of
model performance degradation caused by blurry
guidance in the color images and unclear struc-
tures in the depth maps, Z. Yan et al. (2022)
exploit a repetitive design based on the hourglass
network (J. Tang, Tian, Feng, Li, & Tan, 2020).
To achieve multi-scale training, A. Li et al. (2020)
introduce the cascaded architecture into the hour-
glass network, extended by Fan, Li, Poggi, and
Mattoccia (2022) with denser interaction between
the two modalities.
In the two-branch framework proposed
by Van Gansbeke, Neven, De Brabandere, and
… 
 … 
… 
 … 
Color Image
Sparse Depth
Sparse Depth
CD-Confidence
CD-Depth
CD-Depth
Color-dominant Branch
Depth-dominant Branch
CD-Confidence
DD-Depth
Fused Depth
Fig. 11 : PENet (M. Hu et al., 2021) framework
belonging to dual-branch architectures. It con-
sists of two branches that can respectively produce
depth estimates from color-dominant and depth-
dominant information.
Van Gool (2019), global and local informa-
tion are extracted with two encoders based on
ERFNet (Romera, Alvarez, Bergasa, & Arroyo,
2017), respectively. Notably, the local branch uses
two U-nets to reconstruct sharp edges and struc-
tural details. Finally, the predictions are weighted
by the outputs of each branch. M. Hu et al. (2021)
propose a network that can perform precise and
efficient depth completion (PENet), as depicted
in Fig. 11. It gradually enhances the accuracy of
depth prediction in a coarse-to-fine manner. The
first branch, named the color-dominant branch,
takes a color image and a sparse depth map as
input to produce a dense depth map that inherits
sharp edges and structural details in the color
image. The second branch, i.e., the depth dom-
inant branch, employs a similar network, whose
inputs are the previous dense and sparse depth
map, to output another dense map. Finally, the
two depth maps are fused using the strategy pro-
posed by FusionNet (Van Gansbeke et al., 2019).
Notably, they concatenate the 3D position maps
to the convolutional layer, forming a geometric
convolutional layer, to lift the performance fur-
ther. For indoor depth completion, Jiang et al.
(2022) use a dual-branch structure to achieve an
efficient solution with low power consumption.
Using a dense pseudo-depth map as a coarse
reference for the final prediction, J. Gu, Xiang,
Ye, and Wang (2021) can output stable and
accurate dense depth maps. Different from the
vanilla point-estimate methods with a dual-branch
architecture, Y. Yang, Wong, and Soatto (2019)
develop a conditional prior network (CPN) to
calculate a posterior probability over the depth
of each pixel, combined with a likelihood term
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
using sparse measurements. The standard con-
volution operation applies a kernel to the pixel
grid in an image, which, however, cannot han-
dle sparse depth maps with uneven distribution
of depth values. To address this issue, S. Zhao,
Gong, Fu, and Tao (2021) propose to leverage
graph propagation to extract spatial contexts.
Considering the variability of the graph structure,
it applies the co-attention module (J. Lu, Yang,
Batra, & Parikh, 2016) on the guided graph prop-
agation for efficient multi-modal representation
extraction. Combining traditional methods with a
dual-branch deep network, J. Xu, Zhu, Wang, and
Liu (2023) achieve promising results. In the most
recent works, D. Chen, Huang, Song, Deng, and
Jia (2023) employ two parallel Unet-shape net-
works to extract RGB and depth features at differ-
ent scales. Then, feature fusion is performed in the
decoding stage through the proposed attention-
guided skip connection (AG-SC) module, yielding
the desired results. In contrast, Z. Yu et al. (2023)
propose a network named PointDC that leverages
2D and 3D information to conduct robust depth
completion.
Guided image filtering. In GDC, deep-
guided image filtering can be viewed as a type
of dual-branch architecture that utilizes features
from RGB images to predict a kernel. This kernel
is often learned by a deep network and applied to
depth for feature fusion or dense depth prediction.
Inspired by classical guided image filter-
ing (K. He et al., 2012; Tomasi & Manduchi,
1998), J. Tang et al. (2020) propose a guided net-
work consisting of a GuideNet and a DepthNet to
recover dense depth maps. Inside the GuideNet,
content-dependent and spatial-variant convolu-
tion kernels are predicted to capture geometric
structural features in color images consistent with
real-world scenes. Furthermore, a convolution fac-
torization is introduced into the method to reduce
computational overhead.
L. Liu, Liao, Wang, Geiger, and Liu (2021)
present a two-stage model where depth inter-
polation and refinement are performed sequen-
tially. Specifically, they first interpolate the sparse
depth map via the proposed differentiable kernel
regression layer, proving more effective than hand-
designed filters. Then, a residual network based on
U-net is adopted to refine the coarse depth map.
Baseline Network Initial Depth
Affinity Matrix
Color Image
Sparse Depth
Final PredictionIteration
Fig. 12 : CSPN framework (Cheng et al., 2018)
belonging to affinity-based methods. At each step,
CSPN propagates a local region in all directions
at the same time.
4.2 Affinity-based Methods
In the form of a generic matrix, the affinity
matrix expresses the pairwise proximity infor-
mation between a set of data points. Since the
spatial propagation network (SPN) for learning
the affinity matrix was first employed for depth
completion (S. Liu et al., 2017), many significant
efforts have been made to improve it, yielding
impressive results. In this pioneering work, the
affinity matrix, which can establish associations
between any two pixels over a whole image, is com-
posed of the spatial transformation matrix. Given
a hidden representation H s at iteration t, the spa-
tial propagation with affinity matrix w can be
expressed as:
Ht+1
p,q = (I − dt)Ht
p,q +
X
p,q∈Np,q
wi,j
p,qHt
i,j (24)
where ( p, q) and ( i, j) are the positions of ref-
erence and neighbor pixels, respectively, Np,q
denote the neighborhood of ( p, q), and dt = 1 −P
i,j∈Np,q
wi,j
p,q.
Since spatial propagation is only performed
along a certain direction at a time, the time cost of
this method, which is run in sequence, is high. In
contrast, Cheng et al. (2018) formulate the task as
anisotropic diffusion filtering (R. Liu et al., 2016;
Weickert et al., 1998), and implement it through a
convolutional network named CSPN, depicted in
Fig. 12. In detail, they first employ an Unet-based
network that inputs an RGB image and a sparse
depth map, and outputs a blurred depth map and
an affinity matrix. Then, the propagation is car-
ried out with recurrent convolutional operation.
However, both approaches fix the receptive field
in the propagation, which may yield suboptimal
results for the task. To solve the problem, some
methods utilizing flexible propagation schemes,
such as CSPN++ (Cheng et al., 2020), non-local
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
SPN (NLSPN) (Park, Joo, Hu, Liu, & So Kweon,
2020), deformable SPN (DSPN) (Z. Xu, Yin, &
Yao, 2020) and dynamic SPN (DySPN) (Y. Lin,
Cheng, Zhong, Zhou, & Yang, 2022), are proposed.
To further improve the model performance
for depth completion, Cheng et al. (2020) pro-
pose CSPN++, which includes two variants, i.e.,
context-aware CSPN (CA-CSPN) and resource-
aware CSPN (RA-CSPN). By converting two con-
stants in CSPN – the number of iterations and
kernel size – into variables, CA-CSPN can adap-
tively assemble results from different steps in the
propagation. However, in practice, the compu-
tational complexity is too high to be deployed
in real applications. To speed up the algorithm,
RA-CSPN picks the optimal kernel size and the
number of iterations for each pixel depending on
the learned hyper-parameters. With the improve-
ments, the method can dynamically allocate the
context and computing resources required by each
pixel.
Unlike CSPN++, NLSPN (Park et al., 2020)
is proposed with a two-stage network based on
non-local neighbors instead of a fixed receptive
field. In the first stage, a U-net is employed
to produce a coarse depth, a confidence map,
and non-local neighbors prediction with their
raw affinities. Then, non-local spatial propagation
computed by deformable convolutions (X. Zhu,
Hu, Lin, & Dai, 2019) is performed iteratively. In
this manner, irrelevant features are avoided, while
only relevant non-local neighborhood features are
emphasized. Similar to NLSPN (Park et al., 2020),
DSPN (Z. Xu et al., 2020) also conducts spatial
propagation with deformable convolution, which
can offer an adaptive receptive field according to
the dependencies between pixels.
Later, motivated by dynamic convolu-
tion (Y. Chen et al., 2020), Y. Lin et al. (2022)
develop a non-linear propagation model, named
dynamic spatial propagation network (DySPN),
where the affinity matrix is decoupled into parts
depending on the distance. For neighborhoods
with different distances, the affinity is assigned
different weights to improve CSPN. Moreover,
they propose a diffusion suppression operation,
which adaptively stops iterations on specific pix-
els as directed by the attention matrix to avoid
over-smoothing issues. According to different
computational budgets, they design three variants
of adaptive affinity matrix to achieve a balance
between performance and complexity.
X. Liu, Shao, Wang, Li, and Wang (2022)
integrate SPN and graph neural networks into
one framework, allowing to learn both neighbor-
ing and long-range features. To adapt to practical
applications, Conti, Poggi, and Mattoccia (2023);
Schuster, Wasenmuller, Unger, and Stricker (2021)
propose novel approaches that can achieve good
generalization. Y. Zhang et al. (2023) adopt the
non-local spatial propagation network for improv-
ing the depth quality after obtaining an initial
densified depth map. As for the backbone that
produces an initial depth, they propose a novel
single-branch network, which leverages both the
advantages of CNNs and transformers. In the net-
work, they design a joint convolutional attention
and transformer (JCAT) block that contains two
paths – the transformer layer and the convolu-
tional attention layer – and achieves more efficient
performance than pure transformer-based meth-
ods. To learn the neighborhood affinity, S. Lee,
Yi, Lee, and Kim (2022) propose a network that
leverages multi-scale and local features. (Y. Wang,
Li, et al., 2023) propose a long-short range recur-
rent updating (LRRU) network that leverages an
iterative scheme and employs fewer parameters to
achieve state-of-the-art performance.
4.3 Auxiliary-based Methods
As described in Sec. 3.3, auxiliary learning
employs several related tasks to improve the per-
formance of the main task (Y. Zhang & Yang,
2021). Many methods using auxiliary learning
also emerge in GDC. Atapour-Abarghouei and
Breckon (2019) propose a multi-task framework,
which allows conducting monocular depth estima-
tion and sparse depth completion. This network is
implemented as two cascaded sub-networks based
on encoder-encoder architecture, with the first
yielding a sparse depth map from a color image
and the second estimating a dense depth map, tak-
ing the previous sparse depth as input. To obtain
sharp depth boundaries in the final depth maps,
they adopt adversarial training on both synthetic
and real-world datasets.
In addition to monocular depth estimation,
semantic segmentation also contributes to the
performance improvement of depth completion.
Jaritz et al. (2018) perform multi-task learning,
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
Encoder-Decoder
Semantic 
segmentation
Depth
 Completion
Sparse Depth
Color Image
Fig. 13: MNASnet framework (Jaritz et al., 2018)
belonging to auxiliary-based methods. It can per-
form depth completion and semantic segmentation
simultaneously with minor changes in the last
layer.
namely depth completion and semantic segmen-
tation as shown in Fig. 13, by designing different
heads at the end of a common network, e.g.,
NASNet (Zoph et al., 2018). When depth density
varies, the method can still fuse features across
modalities effectively. Unlike the previous method,
which does not utilize results from the auxiliary
task, C. Zhang et al. (2021) use semantic maps
to improve the accuracy of depth completion.
In order to integrate semantic segmentation and
depth completion into a single framework, they
build multi-task generative adversarial networks
in combination with a semantic-guided smooth-
ness loss, which is inspired by C. Zhao, Yen, Sun,
Zhang, and Tang (2020). In addition to semantic
segmentation and depth completion, edge detec-
tion, which serves as a bridge between the two
tasks, is introduced into the simultaneous seman-
tic segmentation and depth completion multi-task
network (SSDNet) (Zou, Xiang, Chen, Chen, &
Qiao, 2020). Based on the multi-task learning
of semantic segmentation and depth completion,
Hirata, Ishikawa, Roxas, and Oishi (2019) utilize
boundary class labeling to adjust the effects of
adjacent pixels. In Liang, Yang, Chen, Hu, and
Urtasun (2019), the authors perform multiple per-
ception tasks jointly, including 2D and 3D object
detection, ground estimation and depth comple-
tion, to obtain better representations. Although
this work is aimed at object detection, it demon-
strates that the selected tasks are complementary,
so helpful cues provided by the other tasks can
also be applied to depth completion. Motivated by
K. Lu, Barnes, Anwar, and Zheng (2020), Ramesh,
Giovanneschi, and Gonz´ alez-Huici (2023) design
an auxiliary task to generate depth contours while
outputting dense depth maps at the end of the
network.
Researchers leverage some further auxiliary
information to enhance the precision of densified
depth maps. Through a modified auto-encoder
framework, J. Qiu et al. (2019); Y. Zhang and
Funkhouser (2018) propose to estimate surface
normal maps from color images to improve the
depth accuracy. In J. Qiu et al. (2019), the surface
normals are regarded as intermediate represen-
tations since they can result in higher errors in
distance measures. Considering the limitation of
surface normals, the dense depth map estimated
by the color branch is also considered in the
generation of the final dense depth. Instead of gen-
erating a surface normal from a color map, J. Liu
and Jung (2022) take the normal map produced by
sparse depth maps as an intermediate constraint
during training. Y. Xu et al. (2019) introduce a
unified two-stage framework based on the assump-
tion that natural scenes can be represented by
piecewise planes. They build a diffusion mod-
ule that incorporates the geometric constraints
between depth and surface normals. This module
is differentiable, allowing the diffusion conduc-
tance to be adjusted flexibly depending on the
similarity in the guide. Inspired by M. Hu et
al. (2021); Van Gansbeke et al. (2019), Nazir,
Pagani, Liwicki, Stricker, and Afzal (2022) added
a semantic-guided branch to highlight depth dis-
continuities.
Instead of using surface normals as auxiliary
information, some works utilize a point cloud to
enhance model performance. In order to cope with
unpredictable real-world environments, Y. Jeon,
Kim, and Seo (2021) propose a point-cloud-centric
method based on the proposed attentive bilat-
eral convolutional layer. This 3D convolution layer
consists of four steps, i.e., splat, convolve, atten-
tion, and slice, which can directly perform con-
volution operations on point clouds and focus on
capturing helpful features for GDC.
Sometimes, depth completion as auxiliary
information can also improve the performance
of other tasks. For instance, Carranza-Garc´ ıa,
Gal´ an-Sales, Luna-Romera, and Riquelme (2022);
Wu et al. (2022) integrate depth completion net-
works into object detection models to achieve
more accurate results.
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
4.4 Fusion-focused Methods
Similar to GDSR, fusion strategies are also crucial
for GDC. Compared with straightforward fusion
methods, such as concatenation (Eldesokey, Fels-
berg, & Khan, 2019; Y. Zhu et al., 2022) or
summation (Ryu, Lee, Cho, & Yoon, 2021; Shiv-
akumar et al., 2019), researchers design various
complicated and effective methods.
S. Lee, Lee, Kim, and Kim (2020) propose a
multi-scale network that exchanges information
with the attention mechanism at each encoder
scale. L. Yan, Liu, and Belyaev (2020) employ
a similar strategy to fuse cross-modality features
at multiple scales. S. Zhao et al. (2021) con-
duct multi-modal information fusion via the pro-
posed symmetric gated fusion strategy consisting
of two paths, each aiming to modulate the cur-
rent modality features with adaptively extracted
features from the other modality. Using this strat-
egy, features can interact across modalities, thus
allowing the model to obtain accurate depth esti-
mates. L. Liu, Song, et al. (2021) develop a
novel coarse-to-fine framework that emphasizes
the fusion of cross-modal information. It intro-
duces a channel shuffle extraction operation to
blend features from different modalities. Next,
they propose an energy-based fusion operation,
which selects feature values with higher regional
energy to fuse the features effectively. Ke et al.
(2021) propose a multi-modal deep aggregation
network (MDANet), containing multiple connec-
tion and aggregation pathways to implement a
deeper fusion of the two modalities. L. Liu et
al. (2023) design a multi-feature channel shuf-
fle extraction, which utilizes the channel shuffle
operation to fuse features from color images and
depth maps in the encoding stage. Then, a multi-
level weighted combination leveraging multi-scale
features is introduced into the decoding process
to enhance the information fusion effectiveness
further.
4.5 Uncertainty Guidance
Most of the works surveyed so far do not take
into account the reliability of the sparse depth
when designing algorithms. Recently, two cate-
gories of uncertainty, i.e., aleatoric and epistemic
uncertainty, have been considered in GDC with
Bayesian deep learning. Aleatoric or stochastic
uncertainty represents inherent randomness in
Color Image
… 
Sparse Depth
… 
Guidance Map
Softmax
Layer
Global Branch
Global Branch Global Depth
Global Confidence
Local Confidence
Local Depth
Final Depth
Fig. 14: The framework of FusionNet (Van Gans-
beke et al., 2019) belonging to the category of
fusion strategy. This method fuses global and local
features based on the confidence maps in a late
fusion manner.
each observation of the same experiment. In the
task of GDC, aleatoric uncertainty refers to the
random noise in raw LiDAR data and the distri-
bution of sparse pixels. Epistemic or systematic
uncertainty is often caused by models ignoring
certain practical factors. Hence, the models for
GDC are usually focused on handling aleatoric
uncertainty.
Eldesokey, Felsberg, and Khan (2018); Eldes-
okey et al. (2019) introduce a novel framework
with a proposed algebraically-constrained normal-
ized convolution layer, where confidence can be
computed and propagated to subsequent layers.
Here, confidence is used as auxiliary informa-
tion to improve the model performance. Further-
more, they propose a loss function by maximizing
the final confidence to constrain the training.
Later, Eldesokey, Felsberg, Holmquist, and Pers-
son (2020) estimate the confidence of the input
depth with the normalized convolution layer in
an unsupervised manner, which can significantly
improve the accuracy of depth prediction.
As shown in Fig. 14, Van Gansbeke et al.
(2019) estimate confidence maps in the global and
local branches, respectively. Based on the learned
confidence maps calculated by the softmax func-
tion in the last layer, the model can pay more
attention to reliable pixels. Sharing a similar idea,
J. Qiu et al. (2019) output confidence maps for
occlusion handling and integrate depth predic-
tions from color images and normal as well. Y. Xu
et al. (2019) obtain confidence maps through a
decoder to suppress noise propagation in depth
maps.
Y. Zhu et al. (2022) provide a novel uncer-
tainty formulation with Jeffrey’s prior, which can
improve the robustness of the model to noise or
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
Sparse Depth
Skip Connection
Bilinear  Sampler
Color Image
at time t
Color Image
at time t
Photometric 
Consistency
Sparse Depth 
Consistency
Local
Smoothness&
Pose Consistency
ɡt t
ɡtt
Scaffolding
Fig. 15 : VIO (Wong et al., 2020) framework
belonging to unsupervised methods. Combining
the four losses of photometric consistency, sparse
depth consistency, pose consistency and local
smoothness enables training the network in a fully
unsupervised manner.
invalid pixels. In the first stage, this proposed
multi-scale joint prediction model outputs coarse
depth and uncertainty maps, which are then
sent to the uncertainty attention residual learn-
ing network for depth refinement. Through their
architecture and loss function, outliers and uneven
distribution of pixels are well handled. Addition-
ally, Peng, Zhang, Li, and Wang (2022) attempt to
employ the proposed uncertainty-aware sampling
algorithm to identify the reliability of pixels, which
is beneficial for the subsequent adaptive prediction
of the depth range for each pixel.
4.6 Unsupervised Methods
In practice, dense ground truth depth maps are
hard to obtain due to the limitations of LiDAR
imaging principles. Even a high-end LiDAR can
only generate at most 30% valid pixels of the
whole depth map (Uhrig et al., 2017). Thus, some
methods attempt to address the problem with
self-supervised learning, among which the repre-
sentative classes build supervisory signals using
monocular sequences or synchronized stereo pairs.
As depicted in Fig. 15, (T. Zhou et al.,
2017) design a self-supervised framework in which
only color and depth sequences must be pro-
vided instead of sparse/dense image pairs. The
method produces single-view depth prediction and
multi-view camera pose estimation from two inde-
pendent networks. This principle is brought to
GDC by (Ma et al., 2019) introducing three loss
functions, i.e., sparse depth loss, photometric loss,
and smoothness loss. Under this framework, the
performance even outperforms some methods with
semi-dense annotations. To increase the robust-
ness to noise and outliers, (Qu et al., 2020)
substituted the proposed least squares fitting
model for the last convolutional layer of the self-
supervised learning benchmark network (Godard,
Mac Aodha, Firman, & Brostow, 2019). Wong et
al. (2020) propose to use a piecewise planar scaf-
folding of a scene as supervision to implement
self-supervised learning. Using a similar structure,
Wong and Soatto (2021) leverage the proposed
calibrated back-projection layers to improve the
baselines, while T.Y. Liu et al. (2022) intro-
duce knowledge distillation into depth comple-
tion. Kam et al. (2022) propose a two-branch
network inspired by cost volume-based depth esti-
mation, which can obtain informative 2D and 3D
representations from cross-modality input with
the lightweight structure design. In J. Jeon et
al. (2022), they first perform mesh depth con-
struction by leveraging point and line features,
which, together with the color image, are fed
into a mesh depth refinement module. Finally, the
depth prediction can be obtained through the cal-
ibrated backprojection network (KBNet) (Wong
& Soatto, 2021). While most networks are trained
on real datasets, Lopez-Rodriguez, Busam, and
Mikolajczyk (2020); Wong et al. (2021) train their
models on synthetic datasets, alleviating the lack
of real image pairs with dense labels.
In unsupervised learning, stereo pairs also
play an important role. Among the self-supervised
stereo methods, most use photometric consis-
tency (Godard, Mac Aodha, & Brostow, 2017;
Shivakumar et al., 2019; Y. Yang et al., 2019)
to infer geometry and obtain promising results.
In contrast, L. Xu et al. (2022) propose a novel
adjacent geometry guided training loss to confine
depth maps of low-confident regions by high-
confident labels. D. Li et al. (2022); Q. Zhang et al.
(2022) introduce multi-modal spatiotemporal con-
sistency constraints to train models, which enables
the model to better adapt to real-world environ-
ments, such as dark and low-texture objects.
To conclude this section, Tabs. 4 and 5 collect
the methods discussed so far, divided into six cat-
egories. For each method, the venue and year are
reported, together with a short description of the
key idea behind it.
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
Paradigm Method Reference Key Idea
Dual-branch
MNASNet (Jaritz et al., 2018) 3DV-2018 Leverage fused features from dual streams to yield the final dense estimationvia a decoder.
GuideNet (J. Tang et al., 2020) TIP-2020 Propose a hourglass network for depth completion.
KernelNet (L. Liu, Liao, et al., 2021) TIP-2021Present a two-stage model where depth interpolation and refinement areperformed sequentially.
RigNet (Z. Yan et al., 2022) ECCV-2022 Exploit a repetitive design based on the hourglass network.
MSG-CHN (A. Li et al., 2020) WACV-2020 Introduce the cascaded architecture into the hourglass network.CDCNet (Fan et al., 2022) BMVC-2022
Penet (M. Hu et al., 2021) ICRA-2021 Enhance the accuracy of depth prediction in a coarse-to-fine manner.
FusionNet (Van Gansbeke et al., 2019) MVA-2019Exploit confidence maps in the global and local branches to achieve a guided-base method.
DenseLiDAR (J. Gu et al., 2021) RAL-2021 Use a dense pseudo-depth map as a coarse reference for the final prediction.
SDDC (J. Xu et al., 2023) Visual Computer-2023Propose the semantic-guided branch to achieve better prediction results.
QNN (Jiang et al., 2022) CVPR-2022 Adopt a dual-branch structure to achieve an efficient solution with low powerconsumption.
ACMNet (S. Zhao et al., 2021) TIP-2021 Conduct multi-modal information fusion via the proposed symmetric gatedfusion strategy.
PointDC (Z. Yu et al., 2023) ICCV-2023 Propose a dual-branch network to extract 2d and sparse 3D feature pointcloud for depth completion.
AGGNet (D. Chen et al., 2023) ICCV-2023 Design a dual-branch autoencoder with attention mechenism to obtain densedepth maps.
Affinity-based
SPN (S. Liu et al., 2017) NeurIPS-2017 Exploit the spatial propagation network to learning affinity matrix for depthcompletion.
CSPN (Cheng et al., 2018) ECCV-2018 Formulate the task as anisotropic diffusion filtering, and implement it through adeep network.
CSPN++ (Cheng et al., 2020) AAAI-2020 Propose a new structure including context-aware and resource-aware CSPNs.
NLSPN (Park et al., 2020) ECCV-2020 Propose a two-stage network that is based on non-local neighbors instead of afixed receptive field.
DSPN (Z. Xu et al., 2020) ICIP-2020 Conduct spatial propagation with deformable convolution.
DySPN (Y. Lin et al., 2022) AAAI-2022 Develop a non-linear propagation model, where the affinity matrix is decoupledinto parts depending on the distance.
GraphCSPN (X. Liu et al., 2022) ECCV-2022 Integrate SPN and graph neural networks to learn both neighboring and long-range features.
Ssgp (Schuster et al., 2021) WACV-2021 Propose a unified architecture to perform sparse-to-dense interpolation indifferent domains.
SpAgNet (Conti et al., 2023) WACV-2023 Propose a depth completion method that is independent of their distribution anddensity.
CompletionFormer (Y. Zhang et al., 2023) CVPR-2023Leverage the non-local spatial propagation network to improve the depthquality after obtaining initial depth with convolutions and transformers.
DenseLConv (S. Lee et al., 2022) IROS-2022 Propose a depth completion method that is independent of their distributionand density.
LRRU (Y. Wang, Li, et al., 2023) ICCV-2023 Propose a lightweight network to learn spatially-variant kernels and performupdates iteratively.
Auxiliary-based
DCMDE (Atapour-Abarghouei & Breckon, 2019) 3DV-2019Propose a multi-task framework conducting monocular depth estimation andsparse depth completion.
Multitask GANs (C. Zhang et al., 2021) TNNLS-2021Present a multi-task network using semantic images to improve the accuracyof depth completion.
SSDNet (Zou et al., 2020) Sensors-2020 Introduce edge detection to serve as a bridge between semantic segmentationand depth completion.
MMF (Liang et al., 2019) CVPR-2019 Combine 2D and 3D object detection, ground estimation, and depth completionto obtain better representations.
DPS (Hirata et al., 2019) RAL-2019 Present a method for estimating a dense depth from a sparse LIDAR point cloudand an image sequence.
SIUNet (Ramesh et al., 2023) WACV-2023 Propose a network regarding depth contours as auxiliary information to obtaindense depth maps.DDC (Y. Zhang & Funkhouser, 2018) CVPR-2018Propose to estimate surface normal maps from color images to improve thedepth accuracy.Deeplidar (J. Qiu et al., 2019) CVPR-2019NNNet (J. Liu & Jung, 2022) IEEE Access-2022
DNC (Y. Xu et al., 2019) ICCV-2019 Confidence maps are obtained through a decoder to suppress noise propagationin depth maps.
SemAttNet (Nazir et al., 2022) IEEE Access-2022Add a semantic-guided branch for depth completion to highlight depthdiscontinuities.
ABCD (Y. Jeon et al., 2021) RAL-2021 Propose a point-cloud-centric method that is based on the proposed attentivebilateral convolutional layer.
Table 4: List of Guided Depth Completion methods, divided according to the first three outlined cate-
gories.
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
Paradigm Method Reference Key Idea
Fusion-focused
CGM (L. Liu, Liao, et al., 2021) IEEE Access-2020 Present a two-stage model where depth interpolation and refinement areperformed sequentially.
RSIC (L. Yan et al., 2020) IEEE Access-2020 Employ a similar strategy to fuse cross-modality features at multiple scales.
FCFR-Net (L. Liu, Song, et al., 2021) AAAI-2021 Develop a novel coarse-to-fine framework that emphasizes the fusion ofcross-modal information.
MDANet (Ke et al., 2021) ICRA-2021 Propose a multi-modal deep aggregation block that consists of multipleconnection and aggregation pathways for deeper fusion.
MFF-Net (L. Liu et al., 2023) RAL-2023 Propose a multi-feature channel shuffle extraction and a decoding process withmulti-scale features.
Uncertainty-guided
MS-Net (Eldesokey et al., 2019) TPAMI-2019 Introduce a novel framework with a proposed algebraically-constrainednormalized convolution layer.
pNCNN (Eldesokey et al., 2020) CVPR-2020 Estimate the confidence of the input depth with the normalized convolutionlayer in an unsupervised manner.
MJPM (Y. Zhu et al., 2022) AAAI-2022 Provide Jeffrey’s prior uncertainty formulation that can increase the model’sresistance to noise and invalid pixel input.
FusionNet (Wong et al., 2021) RAL-2021 Leverage synthetic datasets to alleviate the lack of real image pairs.
PADNet (Peng et al., 2022) ACM MM-2022 Employ the proposed uncertainty-aware sampling algorithm to identify thereliability of pixels, which is beneficial for prediction of the depth range.
Unsupervised
SfMLearner (T. Zhou, Brown, Snavely, & Lowe, 2017) CVPR-2017Single-view depth prediction and multi-view camera pose estimation from twoindependent networks.
SSDC (Ma, Cavalheiro, & Karaman, 2019) ICRA-2019Propose learning a mapping from the sparse input to the dense prediction.
lsf (Qu, Nguyen, & Taylor, 2020) WACV-2020 Propose a least squares fitting model for the self-supervised learning benchmarknetwork.
VIO (Wong et al., 2020) ICRA-2020 Use a piecewise planar scaffolding of a scene as supervision to achieve self-supervised learning.
KBNet (Wong & Soatto, 2021) ICCV-2021 Exploit the proposed calibrated backprojection layers to improve the baselines.
Monitored Distillation (T.Y. Liu, Agrawal, Chen, Hong, & Wong, 2022) ECCV-2022Introduce knowledge distillation into depth completion.
CostDCNet (Kam, Kim, Kim, Park, & Lee, 2022) ECCV-2022Propose a two-branch network based on the cost volume-based depth estimation.
Struct-MDC (J. Jeon, Lim, Seo, & Myung, 2022) RAL-2022First perform mesh depth construction by leveraging point and line features.
DDP (Y. Yang et al., 2019) CVPR-2019 Develop a conditional prior network to calculate a posterior probability over thedepth of each pixel.
AGG-CVCNet (L. Xu et al., 2022) ACM MM-2022 Propose a novel adjacent geometry guided training loss.
MSC (Q. Zhang et al., 2022) Remote Sensing-2022 Introduce multi-modal spatio-temporal consistency constraints to train models.LeoVR (D. Li et al., 2022) MobiSys-2022
Table 5: List of Guided Depth Completion methods, divided according to the last three outlined cate-
gories.
5 Benchmark Datasets and
objective functions
We introduce existing datasets relevant to our sur-
vey and the most common loss functions used to
train the methods we surveyed before.
5.1 Datasets
This section introduces public datasets for RGB
guided ToF imaging; they are divided into low-
resolution and sparse depth according to the
image characteristics collected by ToF cameras.
5.1.1 Low-resolution depth
Here, we mainly introduce datasets composed of
low-resolution images collected by RGB guided
ToF cameras, which can be employed for depth
super-resolution and depth completion through
certain sampling strategies. We also introduce
datasets that are commonly used in this field,
such as Middlebury (Hirschmuller & Scharstein,
2007; Scharstein et al., 2014; Scharstein & Pal,
2007; Scharstein & Szeliski, 2003), NYU v2 (Sil-
berman et al., 2012), MPI Sintel Depth (Butler
et al., 2012) and ToF-FT3D (J. Wang et al.,
2022), although being collected by other sensors
or synthesized.
ToFMark (Ferstl et al., 2013): This
dataset captures 3 real-world scenes, i.e., Books,
Shark and Devil, by PMD Nano ToF camera.
LU (S. Lu et al., 2014): This dataset con-
sists of 6 RGBD images captured by the ASUS
Xtion Pro camera, which usually serves as valida-
tion or test set.
SUN RGBD (S. Song et al., 2015): SUN
RGBD dataset contains 10 335 indoor image pairs
acquired by four different sensors. This dataset is
often applied to scene understanding tasks. Addi-
tionally, this dataset can be used to investigate
cross-sensor biases.
DIML (Cho et al., 2021): DIML is a
large-scale RGBD database containing 2M RGBD
frames. In order to obtain high-precision depth
maps, they use Kinect v2 to capture indoor scenes
and ZED stereo camera to capture outdoor scenes.
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
Dataset Ref. Y ear Sensor Name Capture condition Modalities Images
LR Depth
ToFMark Ferstl et al. (2013) 2013 PMD Nano Indoor Color, Depth 3 ImagesLu S. Lu et al. (2014) 2014 ASUS Xiton Pro Indoor Color, Depth 6SUN RGBD S. Song, Lichtenberg, and Xiao (2015) 2015 Kinect v2 Indoor Color, Depth 2860
DIML Cho, Min, Kim, and Sohn (2021) 2021 Kinect v2,ZED Stereo Indoor,Outdoor Color, Depth>200 Scenes
RGBDD L. He et al. (2021) 2021 Huawei P30 Pro,Helios Indoor,Outdoor Color, Depth 4811 Images
Middlebury Scharstein and Szeliski (2003)Hirschmuller and Scharstein (2007)Scharstein et al. (2014)
200320072014
Structured LightStructured LightStereo Camera Indoor Color,Depth 32 Images
NYUv2 Silberman et al. (2012) 2012 Kinect V1 Indoor Color, Depth 1449 Images
MPI Sintel Depth Butler, Wulff, Stanley, and Black (2012) 2012 Blender Indoor,Outdoor Color, DepthOptical Flow1064 Images
ToF-FT3D J. Wang, Liu, and Wen (2022) 2022 synthetic – Color, Depth 6250 Views
Sparse Depth
KITTI Uhrig et al. (2017) 2017 Velodyne, Stereo Camera Outdoor Color, Depth 94k Frames
DenseLivox Q. Yu, Chu, Wu, and Pei (2021) 2021 Livox LiDAR,RealSense d435i Indoor,Outdoor Color, Depth 6 Scenes
KITTI-360 Liao, Xie, and Geiger (2022) 2022 Velodyne, Stereo Camera Outdoor Color, Depth,GPS, IMU150 Scenes
Gibson Xia et al. (2018) 2018 NaVis, Matterport Camera,DotProduct Outdoor Color, Depth 572 Scenes
Virtual KITTI Gaidon, Wang, Cabon, and Vig (2016) 2016 Synthetic Outdoor Color,Depth 50 Videos
Leddar Pixset D´ eziel et al. (2021) 2021 Leddar Pixell LiDAR Outdoor Color, DepthIMU, Radar29k Frames
Waymo Perception P. Sun et al. (2020) 2020 LiDAR Outdoor Color, Depth 1150 ScenesDDAD Guizilini, Ambrus, Pillai, Raventos, and Gaidon (2020) 2020 Luminar-H2 LiDAR Outdoor Color, Depth 150 Scenes
Near-Collision Set Manglik, Weng, Ohn-Bar, and Kitanil (2019) 2019LiDAR (N/A),Stereo Camera Indoor Color, Depth 13658 Sequences
Table 6: RGB guided ToF Datasets, divided according to the depth map properties.
In outdoor scenes, confidence maps of disparity
are also provided.
RGBDD (L. He et al., 2021): RGBDD
establishes the first depth map SR dataset, which
can reflect the correspondence between real LR
and HR depth maps. This dataset consists of
4811 images capturing various scenes, e.g., human
body, stuffed dolls, toys and plants. Notably, LR
and HR depth maps are collected by Huawei P30
Pro and Helios ToF camera, respectively.
Middlebury (Hirschmuller & Scharstein,
2007; Scharstein et al., 2014; Scharstein &
Pal, 2007; Scharstein & Szeliski, 2003): The
Middlebury dataset is a widely used dataset in the
field of GDSR, and consists of four sub-datasets
from different years. Middlebury 2003 (Scharstein
& Szeliski, 2003), Middlebury 2005 (Hirschmuller
& Scharstein, 2007), Middlebury 2006 (Scharstein
& Pal, 2007), and Middlebury 2012 (Scharstein et
al., 2014) are acquired by the stereo camera under
indoor condition. These datasets use stereo image
pairs to generate depth maps.
NYUv2 (Silberman et al., 2012): This
dataset uses Microsoft Kinect v1 camera to cap-
ture 1449 images. Most previous works take the
first 1000 RGBD images as the training set, and
the rest of the 449 images as the test set. De Lutio
et al. (2022); Metzger et al. (2022) randomly
selected 849 images for training, 300 for validation,
and 300 for evaluation.
MPI Sintel Depth (Butler et al., 2012):
This dataset originates from an animated short
film for flow evaluation. It provides synthetic video
sequences, including 35 naturalistic scenes, for
which depth maps are provided.
ToF-FT3D (J. Wang et al., 2022): ToF-
FT3D, also known as ToF-FlyingThings3D, is a
synthetic dataset which captures 6250 different
views using Blender. Similar to the FlyingTh-
ings3D (Mayer et al., 2016) for optical flow estima-
tion, it consists of objects that fly along random-
ized 3D trajectories. Besides, this dataset provides
ToF amplitude, ToF depth and RGB images with
a resolution of 640 × 480.
5.1.2 Sparse depth
In practical applications, sparse depth maps are
usually produced by LiDAR and only contain
about 4% valid pixels (Uhrig et al., 2017). Under
some extreme conditions, even less than 1% of the
pixels are effectively measured (Guizilini, Ambrus,
Burgard, & Gaidon, 2021; Guizilini, Li, Ambrus,
Pillai, & Gaidon, 2020). Although sparse depth
maps can be obtained from dense depth maps
with sampling strategies, here we focus on datasets
collected by LiDAR.
KITTI (Uhrig et al., 2017): KITTI is
a dataset initially gathered by the Karlsruhe
Institute of Technology (KIT) and Toyota Tech-
nological Institute at Chicago (TTI-C). As one
of the most important datasets in the field of
autonomous driving, it captures more than 93K
depth maps with corresponding raw LiDAR scans
and RGB images. The LiDAR and two color
cameras used for data acquisition are Velodyne
HDL-64E and Point Grey Flea 2 (FL2-14S3C-C),
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
respectively. Based on the KITTI raw dataset,
Uhrig et al. (2017) remove noise and artifacts in
the scenes and aggregates multiple LiDAR scans
over time to obtain denser ground truth depths,
making this dataset suitable for GDC. There are
86 000, 7 000, and 1 000 image pairs for training,
validation, and evaluation, respectively.
Virtual KITTI (Gaidon et al., 2016):
This dataset is a photo-realistic synthetic video
dataset that contains 50 videos with a total of
21 260 frames. Scenes in the dataset are generated
with the Unity game engine and a real-to-virtual
cloning method. It can be applied to a variety of
tasks, such as object detection, object tracking,
instance semantic segmentation, and more.
KITTI-360 (Liao et al., 2022): KITTI-360
is a newly collected large-scale dataset with rich
sensory information and full annotations. This
dataset captures over 320k images and 100k laser
scans, including annotated static and dynamic 3D
scene elements.
Gibson (Xia et al., 2018): Gibson contains
572 full buildings with 1447 floors covering a total
area of 211k m2. In addition to depth maps and
the corresponding color maps, it provides normal
maps and semantic object annotations.
DenseLivox (Q. Yu et al., 2021): This
dataset collects the images with a Livox Horizon
LiDAR and Intel RalSense D435i camera. It con-
tains dense, accurate depth as ground truth, with
up to 88 .3% valid pixel coverage.
Leddar Pixset (D´ eziel et al., 2021):Led-
dar Pixset is the first full-waveform flash LiDAR
dataset for autonomous driving. It contains 29 000
frames in 97 sequences of various environments,
weather conditions, and periods, annotated with
more than 1.3 million 3D bounding boxes.
Waymo Perception (P. Sun et al., 2020):
This dataset is collected by five LiDAR sensors
and five high-resolution pinhole cameras, all syn-
chronized and calibrated. It captures 1150 scenes,
including urban and suburban areas, each last-
ing 20 seconds. Typically, 1000 scenes are used for
training and 150 for testing.
DDAD (Guizilini, Ambrus, et al.,
2020): DDAD is a new benchmark dataset for
autonomous driving from Toyota Research Insti-
tute, which consists of monocular videos and
accurate ground-truth depth. It has a long mea-
surable distance, which can reach up to 250m.
There are 150 scenes with 12 650 individual image
pairs in the training set, 50 scenes with 3 950
image pairs in the validation set, and 3 080 images
in the test set.
Near-Collision Set (Manglik et al.,
2019): Near-Collision Set is a large-scale, real-
world dataset for near-collision prediction, col-
lected with a stereo camera and LiDAR sensor.
In this dataset, color images, accurate depth, and
human pose annotations are provided. It con-
tains 13 658 egocentric video snippets of humans
navigating in indoor hallways.
To conclude, Tab. 6 lists the main datasets we
discussed so far, categorizing them according to
the input depth map being LR or sparse, as well
as reporting the year of collection, the sensor used,
the capture environment, the sensed modalities
and the number of images.
5.2 Objective Functions.
Notably, the performance of a trained model is
directly related to the choice of loss functions,
as they estimate the corrections to be applied to
weights in the network during training. In this
section, we discuss general loss functions for RGB
guided ToF imaging, along with loss functions that
are frequently employed for the two sub-tasks of
GDSR and GDC, respectively.
5.2.1 General losses
In RGB guided ToF imaging, the most frequently
utilized losses are mean absolute error (MAE),
mean square error (MSE), and root mean square
error (RMSE). MAE is used in many works (Jaritz
et al., 2018; Shivakumar et al., 2019; J. Tang et
al., 2021; Q. Tang et al., 2021), also referred to as
l1 loss
MAE = 1
N
X
p∈N
∥ Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq ∥1 (25)
where ∥ · ∥ 1 means the l1 norm and N denotes the
total number of valid pixels in depth maps. Some
methods (Ma & Karaman, 2018; Z. Zhao et al.,
2022) adopted MSE ( l2 loss) which is defined as
MSE = 1
N
X
p∈N
∥ Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq ∥2 (26)
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
where ∥ · ∥ 2 represents the l2 norm. Another com-
mon quantity is RMSE, i.e., the square root of
MSE:
RMSE =
√
MSE (27)
As a perceptual metric for image qual-
ity assessment, the Structural Similarity Index
(SSIM) is based on the visible structures and is
defined as shown in Eq. 19.
5.2.2 Losses for GDSR.
To achieve more robust training, a few
approaches (P. Liu, Zhang, Meng, & Gao,
2021) use the Charbonnier loss (Charbonnier,
Blanc-Feraud, Aubert, & Barlaud, 1994):
lcha =
q
∥ Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq ∥2 +ϵ2 (28)
where ϵ denotes a constant that ensures the
penalty is non-zero. Sometimes, Peak Signal-to-
Noise Ratio (PNSR) is also utilized for GDSR.
PSNR can be formulated as follows:
PSNR = 10log10( Z2
max
MSE ) (29)
where Zmax is the maximum depth value. The
smaller the pixel value difference between the two
depth maps, the higher the PSNR.
5.2.3 Losses for GDC.
Depth loss. During training, since MAE treats
all errors equally and MSE emphasizes the out-
liers, Huber loss combines the advantages of both:
lhuber =
(
1
N
P
p∈N
1
2 (Zp
hq − ˆZp
hq)2, |Zp
hq − ˆZp
hq| ≤ 1
1
N
P
p∈N(|Zp
hq − ˆZp
hq| − 1
2 ), |Zp
hq − ˆZp
hq| > 1
(30)
where | · | is the operator for absolute value.
In Van Gansbeke et al. (2019), another loss named
Focal-MSE, inspired by T.-Y. Lin, Goyal, Gir-
shick, He, and Doll´ ar (2017), is proposed and
proved to be better than MSE, which is formulated
as:
lf ocal = 1
N
X
p∈N
(1+ epoch
20 |Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq|)·(Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq)2
(31)
Uncertainty-driven loss. Considering the
uneven distribution in the captured depth maps
from LiDAR, the uncertainty-driven loss is intro-
duced (Eldesokey et al., 2020; Y. Xu et al., 2019;
Y. Zhu et al., 2022) to focus on more reliable
pixels. In their works, GDC is defined as maximiz-
ing the posterior probability. The final optimized
loss with Jeffrey’s prior (Figueiredo, 2001) can be
written as
lud = 1
N
X
(e−sn(Z p
hq − ˆZ p
hq)2 + 2sp) (32)
where sn stands for prediction uncertainty at the
pth pixel.
Adversarial loss. For method adopting a
generative adversarial learning strategy (Khan,
Troncoso Aldas, Kumar, Advani, & Narayanan,
2021; Nguyen & Yoo, 2022; H. Wang et al., 2022)
to perform depth completion, the adversarial loss
is needed to discriminate between real and fake
images, which can be written as:
ladv =min
G
max
D
E[log D(Zhq)]+E[log(1−D(G(Zlq, I)))]
(33)
where G(·) and D(·) denote the generator and
discriminator, respectively.
Normal constraint. To further improve
depth accuracy, surface normal constraints have
been exploited in several works (B.-U. Lee, Jeon,
Im, & Kweon, 2019; Y. Xu et al., 2019; Y. Zhang
& Funkhouser, 2018). B.-U. Lee et al. (2019);
Y. Zhang and Funkhouser (2018) compute the
depth-normal consistency loss between the pre-
dicted normal R(p) at pixel p and the estimated
normal v(p, q) from the depth map, as follows:
ln1 =
X
p,q∈N
∥< v(p, q), R(p) >∥2 (34)
where q is a neighbour of pixel p, and <·> denotes
the inner product. To enable models to be trained
in an end-to-end fashion, Y. Xu et al. (2019) pro-
pose a negative cosine loss inspired by Eigen and
Fergus (2015), which is defined as:
ln2 = − 1
N
X
p∈N
R(p) · ˆR(q) (35)
where ˆR(·) is the computed normal vector.
Smoothness term. Based on the assump-
tion of local smoothness, the smoothness term
is introduced in many works (Ma et al., 2019;
Shivakumar et al., 2019) to avoid local optimal
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
solutions, penalizing gradients along x− and y−
directions. In order to maintain the discontinuities
in the final depth maps, some methods (Choi et
al., 2021; Ryu et al., 2021; Z. Song, Lu, Yao, &
Zhang, 2021; Wong et al., 2021, 2020; Wong &
Soatto, 2021) weight the gradients maps according
to the local properties in RGB images:
lsm = 1
N
X
p∈N
λx(p)|∂x ˆZ p
hq| + λy(p)|∂y ˆZ p
hq| (36)
where λx(p) = e−|∂xI p| and λy(p) = e−|∂yI p|.
Photometric consistency. In unsupervised
methods for GDC, photometric consistency based
on the assumption of local smoothness is usually
used to refine depth estimation. Given a reference
image It and its neighboring frame Iτ along the
temporal dimension where τ ∈ T = {t − 1, t + 1},
the goal is to estimate the difference between It
and its reconstructed version from Iτ as follows:
ˆIτ(x, ˆZhq) = Iτ(πgτ tK −1x ˆZhq(x)) (37)
where x = [ xT 1]T are the homogeneous coordi-
nates x ⊂ Ω, π denotes the perspective projection,
gτ t is the relative pose of the camera from time
t to τ, K represents the camera intrinsic matrix,
and ˆZhq(x) denotes the predicted depth of x. The
relative pose can be either known or estimated by
a network.
The photometric consistency is constructed by
the combination of L1 loss and SSIM on the
photometric reprojection as:
lph = 1
|Ω|
X
τ ∈T
X
x∈Ω
ωco|It(x) − ˆIτ(x)|+
ωst(1 − SSIM(It(x), ˆIτ(x))) (38)
where ωco and ωst are weights to balance the two
terms.
Pose consistency. Given a pair of images
It, Iτ as input, a pose network predicts the relative
pose gτ t ∈ SE(3). When the input of the image
sequence is reversed, we expect to obtain gtτ. The
pose consistency loss is formulated as:
lpc =∥ log(gτ t · gtτ) ∥2
2 (39)
where log : SE(3) → se(3) is the logarithmic map.
Others. Finally, we review other commonly
used loss functions in Tab. 7, including depth loss,
structural loss, and others.
6 Evaluation
In this section, we compare the performance of
the state-of-the-art GDSR and GDC approaches
on widely used benchmarks. We first present the
quantitative results for the two categories of RGB
guided ToF imaging. Then, the pros and cons of
the methods are analyzed. Notably, we focus more
on the most recent methods for RGB guided ToF
imaging.
6.1 Comparison of GDSR methods
We select representative GDSR methods for the
quantitative comparison on Middlebury, NYUv2,
RGBDD, and DIML datasets with scaling factors
of 4×, 8×, and 16×. For all the datasets, we follow
the recent literature (J. Tang et al., 2021; Yuan
et al., 2023a; Z. Zhao et al., 2022; Zhong et al.,
2023a) to assess the depth quality according to the
RMSE metric.
Tab. 8 shows the comparison of the state-
of-the-art GDSR methods. In this experiment,
bicubic interpolation is set as the baseline method.
From this table, we can see that although the early
deep learning methods (Hui et al., 2016; Y. Li et
al., 2016) are designed with simple structures, they
show more powerful performance than traditional
methods. Using an encoder-decoder architecture,
DJFR (Y. Li et al., 2019), DepthSR (Guo et al.,
2019) and PAC (H. Su et al., 2019) design two
sub-networks that extract RGB and depth fea-
tures respectively, and attain better performance
compared to models built by several conventional
CNN layers. In order to improve the representa-
tion capability of neural networks, PMBANet (Ye
et al., 2020) design a complex structure and
further boost the GDSR performance. Using a
lightweight structure, FDSR (L. He et al., 2021)
can still produce accurate results. As an alter-
native solution, the kernel prediction network
(KPN) employed by DKN (Kim et al., 2021)
and FDKN also achieves promising results. Fur-
ther, Zhong et al. (2023a) employ the KPN
to handle inconsistent structures between RGB
and depth, which improves generalization to real
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
Types Notation Purpose
Depth loss
lberhu Berhu loss is a reversion of Huber losslhuber.
lce Cross-entropy is to measure the validaty of pixels.
lcyc Twol1 losses for cycle consistency.
Structural loss lgrad Gradient between the prediction and GT without weights.
Others
lcpn RMSE between the prediction and its reconstruction from CPN.
lcos Cosine similarity measures the similarity between the prediction and GT.
ltp MAE between the initial depth and the prediction.
Table 7: Main loss terms deployed for GDSR and GDC.
scenes. CUNet (X. Deng & Dragotti, 2020) devel-
ops an optimization-based method and yields
results comparable to KPNs. Inspired by these
optimization-based methods, DCTNet (Z. Zhao et
al., 2022) and LGR (De Lutio et al., 2022) attain
better performance. LGR (De Lutio et al., 2022),
in particular, achieves the state-of-the-art on Mid-
dlebury and DIML datasets. Unlike most methods
that can only perform upsampling at fixed integer
scales, GeoDSR (X. Wang et al., 2022) learns a
continuous representation and achieves strong per-
formance in arbitrary scale depth super-resolution
on the Middlebury dataset. With an effective mul-
timodal feature fusion strategy, DSR-EI (Qiao,
Ge, Zhang, et al., 2023) attains the best results.
However, the disadvantage is that it brings a large
computational burden.
From another perspective, most state-of-the-
art methods adopt multi-scale or coarse-to-fine
strategies, such as SFG (Yuan et al., 2023b),
JGF (K. Wang et al., 2023), and RSAG (Yuan et
al., 2023a). On the one hand, these strategies have
achieved impressive results in other tasks, showing
their effectiveness in learning feature representa-
tions. On the other hand, some methods, such as
DCTNet (Z. Zhao et al., 2022), LGR (De Lutio
et al., 2022), DADA (Metzger et al., 2022) and
SSDNet (Z. Zhao et al., 2023), combine clas-
sic optimization algorithms with modern CNNs
and demonstrate strong performance. Nonethe-
less, these models cannot be directly applied to
many real scenarios, especially on mobile devices.
Hence, efficient and effective approaches need to
be further investigated.
6.2 Comparison of GDC methods
This section gives the quantitative results achieved
by several representative methods on the two
benchmark datasets, i.e., KITTI driving scenes
and NYUv2 indoor scenes datasets, as shown in
Table 9. For the KITTI dataset, we use RMSE,
MAE, iRMSE, and iMAE metrics to evaluate
model performance. The results on NYUv2 are
measured using RMSE and REL metrics.
From the table, we can see that unsupervised
models have been making continuous progress.
Even so, their performance still lags significantly
behind their supervised counterparts. By using
uncertainty as auxiliary information for depth,
MS-Net (Eldesokey et al., 2019), pNCNN (Eldes-
okey et al., 2020), MJPM (Y. Zhu et al., 2022) and
PADNet (Peng et al., 2022) can filter out noisy
input and invalid pixels, thus achieving better per-
formance than versions without using uncertainty.
As another auxiliary-based method, multi-task
learning has been adopted by various methods to
improve generalization performance. The results
produced by Multitask GANs (C. Zhang et al.,
2021) and SIUNet (Ramesh et al., 2023) demon-
strate the effectiveness of this kind of approach.
Networks using dual-branch structure (D. Chen
et al., 2023; J. Gu et al., 2021; L. Liu, Liao, et
al., 2021; J. Tang et al., 2020; Z. Yu et al., 2023;
S. Zhao et al., 2021) also attain good performance.
These methods fully leverage multi-scale features
to recover the details of depth maps progressively.
Based on the framework, RigNet (Z. Yan et al.,
2022) obtains the best results on NYUv2.
We also analyze the performance of the
affinity-based methods. The affinity matrix pro-
duced by these methods, such as NLSPN (Park
et al., 2020) and GraphCSPN (X. Liu et al.,
2022), are shown to improve depth accuracy
through spatial propagation consistently. In addi-
tion to spatial propagation, DySPN (Y. Lin et
al., 2022) employs the attention mechanism to
achieve excellent results. Furthermore, Comple-
tionFormer (Y. Zhang et al., 2023) combines CNN
with a recently popular and dominant technique,
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
Dataset Middlebury NYUv2 RGBDD DIML
Methods 4× 8× 16× 4× 8× 16× 4× 8× 16× 4× 8× 16×
Bicubic 2.28 3.96 6.37 4.28 7.14 11.58 2.75 4.47 6.98 1.92 3.20 5.14
GF (K. He, Sun, & Tang, 2010) 2.49 3.98 6.08 5.05 6.97 11.1 2.72 4.02 6.68 2.72 3.40 5.13
DMSG (Hui et al., 2016) 2.11 3.74 6.03 3.02 5.38 9.17 1.80 3.04 5.10 1.39 2.34 4.02
DJF (Y. Li et al., 2016) 1.68 3.24 5.62 2.80 5.33 9.46 1.72 2.96 5.26 1.39 2.49 4.27
DJFR (Y. Li et al., 2019) 1.32 3.19 5.57 2.38 4.94 9.18 1.50 2.72 5.05 1.27 2.34 4.13
DepthSR (Guo et al., 2019) 2.08 3.26 5.78 3.49 5.70 9.76 1.82 2.85 4.60 1.40 2.23 3.75
PAC (H. Su et al., 2019) 1.32 2.62 4.58 1.89 3.33 6.78 1.25 1.98 3.49 1.27 2.03 3.45
CUNet (X. Deng & Dragotti, 2020) 1.10 2.17 4.33 1.92 3.70 6.78 1.18 1.95 3.45 1.18 1.88 3.25
DKN (Kim et al., 2021) 1.23 2.12 4.24 1.62 3.26 6.51 1.30 1.96 3.42 1.27 1.86 3.22
FDKN (Kim et al., 2021) 1.08 2.17 4.50 1.86 3.58 6.96 1.18 1.91 3.41 1.13 1.84 3.29
PMBANet (Ye et al., 2020) 1.11 2.18 3.25 1.06 2.28 4.98 1.21 1.90 3.33 1.10 1.72 3.11
FDSR (L. He et al., 2021) 1.13 2.08 4.39 1.61 3.18 5.86 1.16 1.82 3.06 1.10 1.71 2.87
JIIF (J. Tang et al., 2021) 1.09 1.82 3.31 1.37 2.76 5.27 1.15 1.77 2.79 1.17 1.79 2.86
SVLRM (J. Dong et al., 2021) 1.11 2.13 4.34 1.51 3.21 6.98 1.22 1.88 3.55 1.19 1.93 3.49
AHMF (Zhong et al., 2021) 1.07 1.63 3.14 1.40 2.89 5.64 1.10 1.73 3.04 1.10 1.70 2.83
DCTNet (Z. Zhao et al., 2022) 1.10 2.05 4.19 1.59 3.16 5.84 1.08 1.74 3.05 1.07 1.74 3.09
LGR (De Lutio et al., 2022) 1.11 2.12 4.43 1.79 3.17 6.02 1.30 1.83 3.12 1.25 1.79 3.03
RSAG (Yuan et al., 2023a) – – – 1.23 2.51 5.27 1.14 1.75 2.96 – – –
SFG (Yuan et al., 2023b) – – – 1.45 2.84 5.56 – – – – – –
DAGF (Zhong et al., 2023a) 1.15 1.80 3.70 1.36 2.87 6.06 1.17 1.75 3.10 1.15 1.76 3.16
JGF (K. Wang et al., 2023) – – – 1.57 2.48 4.11 1.25 1.85 3.03 – – –
DADA (Metzger et al., 2022) 1.02 1.72 3.16 1.55 2.88 5.34 1.12 1.70 2.89 1.06 1.62 2.64
GeoDSR (X. Wang et al., 2022) 1.04 1.68 3.10 1.42 2.62 4.86 1.10 1.69 2.84 1.07 1.62 2.70
SSDNet (Z. Zhao et al., 2023) 1.02 1.91 4.02 1.60 3.14 5.86 1.04 1.72 2.92 – – –
DSR-EI (Qiao, Ge, Zhang, et al., 2023)0.97 1.53 2.32 1.21 2.46 4.95 0.91 1.37 2.10 0.69 1.19 1.96
Table 8: GDSR – Results on Middlebury, NYUv2, RGBDD and DIML datasets. The lower
the RMSE, the better. Best results in bold, second-best are underlined.
Method Loss F unction Learning KITTI Dataset NYUv2 Dataset
RMSE MAE iRMSE iMAE RMSE REL
DDP (Y. Yang et al., 2019) l1+lcpn+lSSIM Un 1263.19 343.46 3.58 1.32 – –
VIO (Wong et al., 2020) lph+l1+lpc+lsm Un 1169.97 299.41 3.56 1.20 – –
lsf (Qu et al., 2020) l1+lSSIM Un 885.00 225.20 3.40 – 0.134 –
KBNet (Wong & Soatto, 2021) lph+l1+lsm Un 1069.47 256.76 2.95 1.02 – –
CSPN (Cheng et al., 2018) l2 Su 1019.64 279.46 2.93 1.15 0.117 0.016
MS-Net (Eldesokey et al., 2019) l1 Su 859.22 207.77 2.52 0.92 0.117 0.016
Deeplidar (J. Qiu et al., 2019) l2+ln2 Su 758.38 226.50 2.56 1.15 – –
pNCNN (Eldesokey et al., 2020) l2 Su 988.57 228.53 2.71 1.00 - -
NLSPN (Park et al., 2020) l1 orl2 Su 741.68 199.59 1.99 0.84 0.092 0.012
GuideNet (J. Tang et al., 2020) l2 Su 736.24 218.83 2.25 0.99 0.101 0.015
KernelNet (L. Liu, Liao, et al., 2021) l1+lce+lgrad Su 785.06 218.60 2.11 0.92 0.111 0.015
ACMNet (S. Zhao et al., 2021) l2+lsm Su 744.91 206.09 2.08 0.90 0.105 0.015
DenseLiDAR (J. Gu et al., 2021) l2+lgrad+lSSIM Su 755.41 214.13 2.25 0.96 – –
RigNet (Z. Yan et al., 2022) l2 Su 712.66 203.35 2.08 0.90 0.090 0.013
Ssgp (Schuster et al., 2021) l2 Su 833.00 204.00 – – – –
DenseLConv (S. Lee et al., 2022) l2 Su 729.88 210.06 2.10 0.93 0.099 0.015
GraphCSPN (X. Liu et al., 2022) l1 Su 738.41 199.31 1.96 0.84 0.090 0.012
SpAgNet (Conti et al., 2023) l1 Su 844.79 218.39 - - 0.114 0.015
Multitask GANs (C. Zhang et al., 2021)ladv+l2+lcyc Su 746.96 267.71 2.24 1.10 - -
SIUNet (Ramesh et al., 2023) l1 Su 1026.61 227.28 2.73 0.96 0.138 0.015
FCFR-Net (L. Liu, Song, et al., 2021) l1+l2 Su 735.81 217.15 2.20 0.98 0.106 0.015
MFF-Net (L. Liu et al., 2023) l1+l2 Su 719.85 208.11 2.21 0.94 0.100 0.015
MJPM (Y. Zhu et al., 2022) l1+l2 Su 795.43 190.88 1.98 0.83 - -
PADNet (Peng et al., 2022) l1+lf ocal Su 746.19 197.99 1.96 0.85 0.094 0.012
DySPN (Y. Lin et al., 2022) l1+l2 Su 709.12 192.71 1.88 0.82 0.090 0.012
CompletionFormer (Y. Zhang et al., 2023)l1+l2 Su 708.87 203.45 2.01 0.84 0.090 0.012
AGGNet (D. Chen et al., 2023) l2+lhuber Su – – – – 0.092 0.014
PointDC (Z. Yu et al., 2023) l1+l+ 2 +lgrad Su 736.07 201.87 1.97 0.87 0.089 0.012
LRRU (Y. Wang, Li, et al., 2023) Su 696.51 189.96 1.87 0.81 0.091 0.011
Table 9: GDC – Results on KITTI and NYU-v2 datasets. Un and Su indicate unsupervised and super-
vised models. The lower the RMSE, the better. Best results in bold, second-best are underlined.
Vision Transformer, to achieve better perfor-
mance in depth completion. In the most recent
work, LRRU (Y. Wang, Li, et al., 2023) outper-
form other state-of-the-art approaches by learning
spatially-variant kernels and updating iteratively.
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
7 Discussion and future trends
Although some reviewed methods have achieved
promising results on RGB guided ToF imaging,
some issues hinder their practical application.
Here, we mainly describe the challenges and future
trends from the following four aspects.
7.1 Unsupervised methods with
lightweight structure
As described before, most methods perform
GDSR and GDC after training with a supervised
paradigm. However, labeled data is usually dif-
ficult to collect. In addition, the performance of
mass-produced sensors generally fluctuates to a
certain extent, and it is unrealistic to fine-tune
the model on data collected from any existing
sensor. Therefore, unsupervised learning methods
need to be developed without ground truth depth.
In particular, state-of-the-art unsupervised learn-
ing methods cannot achieve the performance of
supervised learning methods, so there is still much
room for improvement in this direction.
On the other hand, these methods often
require many parameters and much computation
to achieve better results, which makes the models
unable to run on many devices at high speed, espe-
cially widely used mobile devices. While transfer-
ring the information to the cloud for processing
is one solution to this problem, it raises thorny
privacy issues. Thus, efficiently recovering high-
quality depth is necessary and remains an open
challenge. One recent example is SeaFormer (Wan,
Huang, Lu, Yu, & Zhang, 2023), which proposes
a versatile mobile-friendly backbone based on the
vision transformer. Developing a simple yet effi-
cient unsupervised model for RGB guided ToF
imaging is challenging but highly desirable.
7.2 Cross-domain generalization
Another issue concerns the ability of networks to
generalize to new domains. This topic has been
mostly overlooked in the literature despite its
relevance for the widespread diffusion of depth
estimation in practical applications. Purposely,
Bartolomei, Poggi, Conti, Tosi, and Mattoccia
(2024) proposed a method to improve cross-
domain generalization for depth completion by
exploiting the virtual projection pattern paradigm
proposed in Bartolomei, Poggi, Tosi, Conti, and
Mattoccia (2023) and casting depth completion as
a correspondence problem using a virtual stereo
setup. Processing properly hallucinated fictitious
stereo pairs with a robust stereo network that
possibly exploits the RGB image context, such
as RAFT Lipson, Teed, and Deng (2021), leads
to more robust cross-domain generalization than
state-of-the-art depth completion networks.
7.3 ToF with varifocal lens color
camera
RGB cameras in many devices, such as mobile
phones and drones, have variable focal lengths,
while ToF cameras usually employ fixed focal
length lenses. Different focal lengths correspond to
different depths of field and angles of view. When a
ToF camera captures a distant object, boundaries
are usually blurred. If the color image autofocuses
on the object, it can provide rich structural details
and transfer to the depth map. Nonetheless, it also
brings a problem that the scales of the images from
the two modalities may differ. In this case, the
RGB image and the depth map cannot be directly
aligned by the registration technique, i.e., a new
calibration is required. Hence, further investiga-
tion needs to be conducted on how to align two
scale-inconsistent images, i.e., the RGB image and
the depth map, and simultaneously transfer the
scene geometry in the RGB image to the depth
map.
7.4 Spot-ToF
The main disadvantage of ToF cameras using
floodlight projection, currently the most com-
monly used technique in mobile devices, is their
close operating distance. The scheme proposed
by Achar, Bartels, Whittaker, Kutulakos, and
Narasimhan (2017) can significantly extend the
measurable distance of the ToF camera, but the
long acquisition time of each image limits the prac-
tical application. On the other hand, direct ToF
(d-ToF) can capture distant objects, whereas the
resolution of the sensors is much lower than that
of indirect ToF (i-ToF) with tens of thousands of
pixels, e.g., 8 × 8 or 24 × 24. LiDAR also faces the
same problem, and its manufacturing cost is too
expensive, making it currently unable to be used
as a consumer-grade camera. Ge, Qiao, Huimin,
Zhou, and Deng (2021) provide an alternative to
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
alleviate the issue. Specifically, they replaced the
optical diffuser in the ToF camera projector with
a diffraction optical element (DOE), which is used
to evenly distribute the incident light into thou-
sands of laser beams. In this way, each laser beam
can have a measurable distance greater than that
of floodlight illumination. However, this approach
faces two challenges. First, a laser beam forms a
spot in the sensor, corresponding to several pix-
els. The uneven intensity distribution of the spot
may lead to inconsistencies in the measurement,
so it is necessary to develop new depth correction
methods to obtain an accurate depth map. Sec-
ond, the captured images are sparse (similar to
LiDAR but at a lower cost), so effective and effi-
cient algorithms need to be developed to estimate
dense depth under this setting.
7.5 Under-display RGBD camera
In recent years, in pursuit of a better visual
experience, full-screen devices have attracted the
attention of industry and academia. This fact
also brings a major challenge: images captured
by under-display cameras are severely degraded,
requiring effective strategies for restoration. Most
of the existing work is to study the image restora-
tion of under-display RGB cameras (UDC), while
few works focus on under-display ToF (UD-ToF)
depth restoration.
Under-display camera. Recently, smart-
phones with full-screen displays, eliminating the
need for bezels, have become a new product trend
and motivated manufacturers to design a brand-
new imaging system, the Under-Display Camera.
Placing a display in front of the camera lens can
increase the screen-to-body ratio for a better user
experience. However, the broad commercial man-
ufacturing of UDC is prevented by poor imaging
quality due to the inevitable degradations, such as
blurs, noise, diffraction artifacts, color shifts, etc.
UDC image restoration has been studied in
a few literary works. As the pioneered of this
work, Y. Zhou, Ren, Emerton, Lim, and Large
(2021) devise a Monitor Camera Imaging Sys-
tem (MCIS) to collect paired data and offer two
practical solutions for UDC image restoration,
including a deconvolution-based Wierner Filter
pipeline and the data-driven method. A. Yang and
Sankaranarayanan (2021) redesign the display lay-
out to improve the quality of recovered images. To
address spatially variant blur and noise, Kwon et
al. (2021) develop a controllable image restoration
algorithm, which performs well on both a monitor-
based aligned dataset (Y. Zhou et al., 2020) and
a real-world dataset. Feng et al. (2021) propose
a domain-knowledge-based network to restore the
UDC images. However, this work requires a point-
spread function (PSF) as a prior, thus failing to
work well when the PSF is unavailable. To remedy
this, Koh, Lee, and Yoon (2022) design an effective
two-branched network for UDC image restoration
from the perspective of low-frequency and high-
frequency information learning. The UDC image
restoration methods need paired image datasets
that perform poor generalization capability for
real degradations. The reason behind this phe-
nomenon is the domain discrepancy between syn-
thesized data and real-captured data. To alleviate
this problem, Feng et al. (2023) employ collected
non-aligned data for UDC image restoration and
improve the robustness of the restoration network
in real-world scenarios.
Under-display ToF. Currently, only one
work (Qiao, Ge, Deng, et al., 2023) has investi-
gated image restoration with a ToF camera placed
under a display. In this paper, they propose a cas-
caded network to restore the depth in a coarse-to-
fine manner. Differently from previous methods,
in the first stage, they design a complex-valued
neural network to recover the ToF raw measure-
ments. In the second stage, they refine the depth
based on the proposed multi-scale depth enhance-
ment block. Moreover, to enable the training, they
introduce real and synthetic datasets for UD-ToF
imaging, respectively. Specifically, the large-scale
synthetic dataset is created by analyzing noise in
magnitude and phase.
If a color camera is located under a display
with a ToF camera, there is greater potential for
obtaining high-quality depth maps. However, the
design of models to jointly compensate for multi-
modal image degradation is still challenging.
7.6 Hybrid models
Typically, RGBD-based imaging can be addressed
by either conventional or deep-learning methods,
each of which possesses advantages and disadvan-
tages. A major advantage of conventional methods
is that, through well-interpretable hand-crafted
models, the predicted depth can be guaranteed to
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
be loyal to the source. However, designing a model
with excellent feature representation capabilities
is usually extremely challenging. In contrast, deep-
learning methods can perform very well on a
specific task with sufficient and representative
data for training. On the other hand, when there
is insufficient data or a biased distribution, these
trained models may not achieve the desired results
during testing. Therefore, combining the advan-
tages of both to design hybrid models is one
of the future trends in RGB guided ToF cam-
era imaging. In particular, the hand-crafted prior,
complemented by the powerful feature represen-
tation capability of neural networks, can make it
easier to achieve a lightweight approach.
7.7 Online alignment of RGB and
depth
In previous work, RGB and depth maps were usu-
ally assumed to have been well-aligned in spatial
by calibration operations. However, in practice,
the intrinsic cx, cy and extrinsic parameters tx, ty
change when the camera is deployed on a device
or subjected to vibration, which requires online
weakly calibration for the RGB guided ToF cam-
era. On the other hand, cross-modal online align-
ment in the time dimension is also necessary for
practical applications, as different sensors may
not achieve completely accurate synchronization
in sensing the environment. Especially when the
acquisition is out of sync during motion, the imag-
ing quality of the RGBD camera will be seriously
degraded. Although some previous efforts (D. Qiu,
Pang, Sun, & Yang, 2019) have been devoted to
cross-modal correspondence matching, the algo-
rithms consume a long inference time, so tem-
porally and spatially efficient alignment methods
remain to be further explored.
7.8 Lightweight ToF
To promote the application of ToF cameras in
various consumer electronic devices, lightweight
ToF cameras Y. Li et al. (2022); X. Liu et al.
(2023) were launched on the market and have
received the favor of many manufacturers for their
low power consumption, low cost, and compact
structure. Unlike common ToFs, lightweight ToF
cameras generate measurements as depth distribu-
tions rather than specific values. Specifically, this
type of camera can be used in many fields, such
as AR/VR and obstacle avoidance. Nonetheless,
the lightweight design inevitably brings drawbacks
such as extremely low resolution (e.g., 8×8), which
leads to a degradation in the depth quality and
cannot support applications requiring high-quality
depth. Therefore, using other modal information,
such as RGB or IR, to improve the resolution of
lightweight ToF depth becomes one of the future
trends.
7.9 Multi-frame processing
Currently, most algorithms deal with RGB guided
ToF imaging in a single-frame fashion, using
one degraded depth map as input to infer the
corresponding high-quality output. However, the
format we usually capture with cameras is a
data stream (video) rather than a single image.
Therefore, it is crucial to consider the tempo-
ral correlation of data and output stable depth
maps. There have been some works Patil, Dud-
hane, Chaudhary, and Murala (2022); Wronski
et al. (2019) employing multi-frame processing
technology for image denoising, enhancement, and
super-resolution, but only a few works Z. Sun et al.
(2023) have applied it to ToF depth improvement.
Based on the above analysis, fusing ToF depth
and RGB images with multi-frame processing
technology is a promising direction.
8 Conclusion
In this paper, we have presented a survey of
RGB guided ToF imaging methods based on deep
learning. Our review covers preliminaries, eval-
uation metrics, network design, learning proto-
cols, benchmark datasets, and objective functions.
According to the measurable distance and the pur-
pose of the ToF camera, we roughly divide the
problem faced into two categories: guided depth
super-resolution and guided depth completion.
Moreover, we collect a quantitative comparison of
the surveyed methods on widely used benchmarks
and analyze their performance and respective
characteristics. Finally, we summarize the cur-
rent challenges in practical applications as well as
promising future trends.
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China (No. 62088102, No.
62376208), Fundamental Research Funds for the
Central Universities (No. xzy022023107), China
Telecom Group Corporation-Xi’an Jiaotong Uni-
versity Jointly Established Intelligent Cloud Net-
work Science and Education Integration Innova-
tion Research Institute (No. 20221279-ZKT03).
References
Achar, S., Bartels, J.R., Whittaker, W.L., Kutu-
lakos, K.N., Narasimhan, S.G. (2017).
Epipolar time-of-flight imaging. ACM
Transactions on Graphics (ToG) , 36(4), 1–
8,
Atapour-Abarghouei, A., & Breckon, T.P. (2019).
To complete or to estimate, that is the
question: A multi-task approach to depth
completion and monocular depth estima-
tion. 2019 international conference on 3d
vision (3dv) (pp. 183–193).
Bartolomei, L., Poggi, M., Conti, A., Tosi, F.,
Mattoccia, S. (2024, March). Revisiting
depth completion from a stereo matching
perspective for cross-domain generalization.
International conference on 3d vision 2024
(3dv 2024).
Bartolomei, L., Poggi, M., Tosi, F., Conti, A.,
Mattoccia, S. (2023, October). Active
stereo without pattern projector. Proceed-
ings of the ieee/cvf international conference
on computer vision (iccv) (p. 18470-18482).
Butler, D.J., Wulff, J., Stanley, G.B., Black, M.J.
(2012). A naturalistic open source movie for
optical flow evaluation. Computer vision–
eccv 2012: 12th european conference on com-
puter vision, florence, italy, october 7-13,
2012, proceedings, part vi 12 (pp. 611–625).
Carranza-Garc´ ıa, M., Gal´ an-Sales, F.J., Luna-
Romera, J.M., Riquelme, J.C. (2022).
Object detection using depth completion
and camera-lidar fusion for autonomous
driving. Integrated Computer-Aided Engi-
neering, 29(3), 241–258,
Charbonnier, P., Blanc-Feraud, L., Aubert, G.,
Barlaud, M. (1994). Two determinis-
tic half-quadratic regularization algorithms
for computed imaging. Proceedings of 1st
international conference on image process-
ing (Vol. 2, pp. 168–172).
Chen, D., Huang, T., Song, Z., Deng, S., Jia, T.
(2023). Agg-net: Attention guided gated-
convolutional network for depth image com-
pletion. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf inter-
national conference on computer vision (pp.
8853–8862).
Chen, Y., Dai, X., Liu, M., Chen, D., Yuan, L.,
Liu, Z. (2020). Dynamic convolution: Atten-
tion over convolution kernels. Proceedings of
the ieee/cvf conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition (pp. 11030–11039).
Cheng, X., Wang, P., Guan, C., Yang, R. (2020).
Cspn++: Learning context and resource
aware convolutional spatial propagation net-
works for depth completion. Proceedings of
the aaai conference on artificial intelligence
(Vol. 34, pp. 10615–10622).
Cheng, X., Wang, P., Yang, R. (2018). Depth
estimation via affinity learned with convolu-
tional spatial propagation network. Proceed-
ings of the european conference on computer
vision (eccv) (pp. 103–119).
Cho, J., Min, D., Kim, Y., Sohn, K. (2021). Deep
monocular depth estimation leveraging a
large-scale outdoor stereo dataset. Expert
Systems with Applications , 178, 114877,
Chodosh, N., Wang, C., Lucey, S. (2019). Deep
convolutional compressed sensing for lidar
depth completion. Computer vision–accv
2018: 14th asian conference on computer
vision, perth, australia, december 2–6, 2018,
revised selected papers, part i 14 (pp. 499–
513).
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
Choi, J., Jung, D., Lee, Y., Kim, D., Manocha,
D., Lee, D. (2021). Selfdeco: Self-supervised
monocular depth completion in challenging
indoor environments. 2021 ieee interna-
tional conference on robotics and automa-
tion (icra) (pp. 467–474).
Chugunov, I., Baek, S.-H., Fu, Q., Heidrich, W.,
Heide, F. (2021). Mask-tof: Learning
microlens masks for flying pixel correction
in time-of-flight imaging. Proceedings of the
ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 9116–9126).
Cong, R., Lei, J., Fu, H., Huang, Q., Cao, X., Ling,
N. (2018). Hscs: Hierarchical sparsity based
co-saliency detection for rgbd images. IEEE
Transactions on Multimedia , 21(7), 1660–
1671,
Conti, A., Poggi, M., Mattoccia, S. (2023). Spar-
sity agnostic depth completion. Proceedings
of the ieee/cvf winter conference on applica-
tions of computer vision (pp. 5871–5880).
De Lutio, R., Becker, A., D’Aronco, S., Russo,
S., Wegner, J.D., Schindler, K. (2022).
Learning graph regularisation for guided
super-resolution. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 1979–1988).
Deng, P., Ge, C., Qiao, X., Wei, H. (2022). Multi-
stream face anti-spoofing system using 3d
information. 2022 ieee international con-
ference on consumer electronics (icce) (pp.
1–6).
Deng, X., & Dragotti, P.L. (2019). Coupled
ista network for multi-modal image super-
resolution. Icassp 2019-2019 ieee interna-
tional conference on acoustics, speech and
signal processing (icassp) (pp. 1862–1866).
Deng, X., & Dragotti, P.L. (2020). Deep con-
volutional neural network for multi-modal
image restoration and fusion. IEEE trans-
actions on pattern analysis and machine
intelligence, 43(10), 3333–3348,
D´ eziel, J.-L., Merriaux, P., Tremblay, F., Lessard,
D., Plourde, D., Stanguennec, J., . . . Olivier,
P. (2021). Pixset: An opportunity for 3d
computer vision to go beyond point clouds
with a full-waveform lidar dataset. 2021
ieee international intelligent transportation
systems conference (itsc) (pp. 2987–2993).
Diebel, J., & Thrun, S. (2005). An application
of markov random fields to range sensing.
Advances in neural information processing
systems, 18, ,
Dong, J., Pan, J., Ren, J.S., Lin, L., Tang, J.,
Yang, M.-H. (2021). Learning spatially vari-
ant linear representation models for joint
filtering. IEEE Transactions on Pattern
Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 44(11),
8355–8370,
Dong, X., Yokoya, N., Wang, L., Uezato,
T. (2022). Learning mutual modula-
tion for self-supervised cross-modal super-
resolution. Computer vision–eccv 2022: 17th
european conference, tel aviv, israel, octo-
ber 23–27, 2022, proceedings, part xix (pp.
1–18).
Eigen, D., & Fergus, R. (2015). Predicting
depth, surface normals and semantic labels
with a common multi-scale convolutional
architecture. Proceedings of the ieee inter-
national conference on computer vision (pp.
2650–2658).
Eldesokey, A., Felsberg, M., Holmquist, K., Pers-
son, M. (2020). Uncertainty-aware cnns for
depth completion: Uncertainty from begin-
ning to end. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 12014–12023).
Eldesokey, A., Felsberg, M., Khan, F.S. (2018).
Propagating confidences through cnns for
sparse data regression. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1805.11913 , ,
Eldesokey, A., Felsberg, M., Khan, F.S. (2019).
Confidence propagation through cnns for
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
guided sparse depth regression. IEEE trans-
actions on pattern analysis and machine
intelligence, 42(10), 2423–2436,
Fan, R., Li, Z., Poggi, M., Mattoccia, S. (2022).
A cascade dense connection fusion network
for depth completion. 33rd british machine
vision conference 2022, BMVC 2022, lon-
don, uk, november 21-24, 2022.
Feng, R., Li, C., Chen, H., Li, S., Gu, J., Loy,
C.C. (2023). Generating aligned pseudo-
supervision from non-aligned data for image
restoration in under-display camera. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2304.06019 , ,
Feng, R., Li, C., Chen, H., Li, S., Loy, C.C., Gu,
J. (2021). Removing diffraction image arti-
facts in under-display camera via dynamic
skip connection network. Proceedings of the
ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 662–671).
Ferstl, D., Reinbacher, C., Ranftl, R., R¨ uther, M.,
Bischof, H. (2013). Image guided depth
upsampling using anisotropic total gener-
alized variation. Proceedings of the ieee
international conference on computer vision
(pp. 993–1000).
Figueiredo, M. (2001). Adaptive sparseness
using jeffreys prior. Advances in neural
information processing systems , 14, ,
Gaidon, A., Wang, Q., Cabon, Y., Vig, E. (2016).
Virtual worlds as proxy for multi-object
tracking analysis. Proceedings of the ieee
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 4340–4349).
Ge, C., Qiao, X., Huimin, Y., Zhou, Y., Deng, P.
(2021, October 12). Tof depth sensor based
on laser speckle projection and distance mea-
suring method thereof. Google Patents. (US
Patent 11,143,880)
Godard, C., Mac Aodha, O., Brostow, G.J. (2017).
Unsupervised monocular depth estimation
with left-right consistency. Proceedings of
the ieee conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 270–279).
Godard, C., Mac Aodha, O., Firman, M., Brostow,
G.J. (2019). Digging into self-supervised
monocular depth estimation. Proceedings
of the ieee/cvf international conference on
computer vision (pp. 3828–3838).
Gu, J., Xiang, Z., Ye, Y., Wang, L. (2021). Densel-
idar: A real-time pseudo dense depth guided
depth completion network. IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters , 6(2), 1808–1815,
Gu, S., Guo, S., Zuo, W., Chen, Y., Timofte, R.,
Van Gool, L., Zhang, L. (2019). Learned
dynamic guidance for depth image recon-
struction. IEEE Transactions on Pattern
Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 42(10),
2437–2452,
Guizilini, V., Ambrus, R., Burgard, W., Gaidon,
A. (2021). Sparse auxiliary networks
for unified monocular depth prediction and
completion. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 11078–11088).
Guizilini, V., Ambrus, R., Pillai, S., Raventos,
A., Gaidon, A. (2020). 3d packing for
self-supervised monocular depth estimation.
Proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition(pp.
2485–2494).
Guizilini, V., Li, J., Ambrus, R., Pillai, S., Gaidon,
A. (2020). Robust semi-supervised monoc-
ular depth estimation with reprojected dis-
tances. Conference on robot learning (pp.
503–512).
Guo, C., Li, C., Guo, J., Cong, R., Fu, H., Han,
P. (2019). Hierarchical features driven resid-
ual learning for depth map super-resolution.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing ,
28(5), 2545-2557, https://doi.org/10.1109/
TIP.2018.2887029
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
Gupta, M., Nayar, S.K., Hullin, M.B., Martin,
J. (2015). Phasor imaging: A generaliza-
tion of correlation-based time-of-flight imag-
ing. ACM Transactions on Graphics (ToG),
34(5), 1–18,
Gutierrez-Barragan, F., Chen, H., Gupta, M., Vel-
ten, A., Gu, J. (2021). itof2dtof: A robust
and flexible representation for data-driven
time-of-flight imaging. IEEE Transactions
on Computational Imaging , 7, 1205–1214,
H¨ ane, C., Heng, L., Lee, G.H., Fraundorfer, F.,
Furgale, P., Sattler, T., Pollefeys, M. (2017).
3d visual perception for self-driving cars
using a multi-camera system: Calibration,
mapping, localization, and obstacle detec-
tion. Image and Vision Computing , 68,
14–27,
He, K., Sun, J., Tang, X. (2010). Guided image
filtering. European conference on computer
vision (pp. 1–14).
He, K., Sun, J., Tang, X. (2012). Guided image
filtering. IEEE transactions on pattern
analysis and machine intelligence , 35(6),
1397–1409,
He, L., Zhu, H., Li, F., Bai, H., Cong, R., Zhang,
C., . . . Zhao, Y. (2021). Towards fast and
accurate real-world depth super-resolution:
Benchmark dataset and baseline. Proceed-
ings of the ieee/cvf conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition (pp. 9229–
9238).
Heide, F., Heidrich, W., Hullin, M., Wetzstein,
G. (2015). Doppler time-of-flight imag-
ing. ACM Transactions on Graphics (ToG),
34(4), 1–11,
Hirata, A., Ishikawa, R., Roxas, M., Oishi, T.
(2019). Real-time dense depth estimation
using semantically-guided lidar data propa-
gation and motion stereo. IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters , 4(4), 3806–3811,
Hirschmuller, H., & Scharstein, D. (2007). Evalu-
ation of cost functions for stereo matching.
2007 ieee conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 1–8).
Holynski, A., & Kopf, J. (2018). Fast depth
densification for occlusion-aware augmented
reality. ACM Transactions on Graphics
(ToG), 37(6), 1–11,
Hu, J., Bao, C., Ozay, M., Fan, C., Gao, Q., Liu,
H., Lam, T.L. (2022). Deep depth comple-
tion from extremely sparse data: A survey.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence , 1-20, https://doi
.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2022.3229090
Hu, M., Wang, S., Li, B., Ning, S., Fan, L., Gong,
X. (2021). Penet: Towards precise and effi-
cient image guided depth completion. 2021
ieee international conference on robotics and
automation (icra) (pp. 13656–13662).
Huang, G., Liu, Z., Van Der Maaten, L., Wein-
berger, K.Q. (2017). Densely connected con-
volutional networks. Proceedings of the ieee
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 4700–4708).
Hui, T.-W., Loy, C.C., Tang, X. (2016). Depth
map super-resolution by deep multi-scale
guidance. Computer vision–eccv 2016: 14th
european conference, amsterdam, the nether-
lands, october 11-14, 2016, proceedings, part
iii 14 (pp. 353–369).
Hussmann, S., Knoll, F., Edeler, T. (2013). Mod-
ulation method including noise model for
minimizing the wiggling error of tof cameras.
IEEE transactions on instrumentation and
measurement, 63(5), 1127–1136,
Jaritz, M., De Charette, R., Wirbel, E., Perrot-
ton, X., Nashashibi, F. (2018). Sparse and
dense data with cnns: Depth completion and
semantic segmentation. 2018 international
conference on 3d vision (3dv) (pp. 52–60).
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
Jeon, J., Lim, H., Seo, D.-U., Myung, H.
(2022). Struct-mdc: Mesh-refined unsuper-
vised depth completion leveraging structural
regularities from visual slam. IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters , 7(3), 6391–6398,
Jeon, Y., Kim, H., Seo, S.-W. (2021). Abcd:
Attentive bilateral convolutional network for
robust depth completion. IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters , 7(1), 81–87,
Jiang, X., Cambareri, V., Agresti, G., Ugwu,
C.I., Simonetto, A., Cardinaux, F., Zanut-
tigh, P. (2022). A low memory footprint
quantized neural network for depth com-
pletion of very sparse time-of-flight depth
maps. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition
(pp. 2687–2696).
Kalia, M., Navab, N., Salcudean, T. (2019).
A real-time interactive augmented real-
ity depth estimation technique for surgical
robotics. 2019 international conference on
robotics and automation (icra) (pp. 8291–
8297).
Kam, J., Kim, J., Kim, S., Park, J., Lee, S. (2022).
Costdcnet: Cost volume based depth com-
pletion for a single rgb-d image. Computer
vision–eccv 2022: 17th european conference,
tel aviv, israel, october 23–27, 2022, proceed-
ings, part ii (pp. 257–274).
Ke, Y., Li, K., Yang, W., Xu, Z., Hao, D., Huang,
L., Wang, G. (2021). Mdanet: Multi-
modal deep aggregation network for depth
completion. 2021 ieee international confer-
ence on robotics and automation (icra) (pp.
4288–4294).
Khan, M.F.F., Troncoso Aldas, N.D., Kumar, A.,
Advani, S., Narayanan, V. (2021). Sparse
to dense depth completion using a gener-
ative adversarial network with intelligent
sampling strategies. Proceedings of the 29th
acm international conference on multimedia
(pp. 5528–5536).
Kim, B., Ponce, J., Ham, B. (2021). Deformable
kernel networks for joint image filtering.
International Journal of Computer Vision ,
129(2), 579–600,
Koh, J., Lee, J., Yoon, S. (2022). Bnudc:
A two-branched deep neural network for
restoring images from under-display cam-
eras. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition
(pp. 1950–1959).
Kwon, K., Kang, E., Lee, S., Lee, S.-J., Lee, H.-
E., Yoo, B., Han, J.-J. (2021). Controllable
image restoration for under-display camera
in smartphones. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 2073–2082).
Lee, B.-U., Jeon, H.-G., Im, S., Kweon, I.S. (2019).
Depth completion with deep geometry and
context guidance. 2019 international confer-
ence on robotics and automation (icra) (pp.
3281–3287).
Lee, S., Lee, J., Kim, D., Kim, J. (2020). Deep
architecture with cross guidance between
single image and sparse lidar data for depth
completion. IEEE Access, 8, 79801–79810,
Lee, S., Yi, E., Lee, J., Kim, J. (2022). Multi-
scaled and densely connected locally convo-
lutional layers for depth completion. 2022
ieee/rsj international conference on intelli-
gent robots and systems (iros) (pp. 8360–
8367).
Li, A., Yuan, Z., Ling, Y., Chi, W., Zhang, C.,
et al. (2020). A multi-scale guided cascade
hourglass network for depth completion.
Proceedings of the ieee/cvf winter confer-
ence on applications of computer vision (pp.
32–40).
Li, D., Xu, J., Yang, Z., Zhang, Q., Ma, Q.,
Zhang, L., Chen, P. (2022). Motion inspires
notion: self-supervised visual-lidar fusion for
environment depth estimation. Proceedings
of the 20th annual international conference
on mobile systems, applications and services
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
(pp. 114–127).
Li, J., Yue, T., Zhao, S., Hu, X. (2022). Fisher
information guidance for learned time-of-
flight imaging. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 16334–16343).
Li, T., Lin, H., Dong, X., Zhang, X. (2020). Depth
image super-resolution using correlation-
controlled color guidance and multi-scale
symmetric network. Pattern Recognition ,
107, 107513,
Li, Y., Huang, J.-B., Ahuja, N., Yang, M.-H.
(2016). Deep joint image filtering. Euro-
pean conference on computer vision (pp.
154–169).
Li, Y., Huang, J.-B., Ahuja, N., Yang, M.-H.
(2019). Joint image filtering with deep con-
volutional networks. IEEE transactions on
pattern analysis and machine intelligence ,
41(8), 1909–1923,
Li, Y., Liu, X., Dong, W., Zhou, H., Bao, H.,
Zhang, G., . . . Cui, Z. (2022). Deltar:
Depth estimation from a light-weight tof
sensor and rgb image. European conference
on computer vision (pp. 619–636).
Liang, M., Yang, B., Chen, Y., Hu, R., Urtasun,
R. (2019). Multi-task multi-sensor fusion
for 3d object detection. Proceedings of the
ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 7345–7353).
Liao, Y., Xie, J., Geiger, A. (2022). Kitti-
360: A novel dataset and benchmarks for
urban scene understanding in 2d and 3d.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence , ,
Lin, T.-Y., Goyal, P., Girshick, R., He, K., Doll´ ar,
P. (2017). Focal loss for dense object
detection. Proceedings of the ieee interna-
tional conference on computer vision (pp.
2980–2988).
Lin, Y., Cheng, T., Zhong, Q., Zhou, W., Yang,
H. (2022). Dynamic spatial propagation net-
work for depth completion. Proceedings of
the aaai conference on artificial intelligence
(Vol. 36, pp. 1638–1646).
Lipson, L., Teed, Z., Deng, J. (2021). Raft-
stereo: Multilevel recurrent field transforms
for stereo matching. International confer-
ence on 3d vision (3dv).
Liu, A., Tan, Z., Wan, J., Escalera, S., Guo, G.,
Li, S.Z. (2021). Casia-surf cefa: A bench-
mark for multi-modal cross-ethnicity face
anti-spoofing. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
winter conference on applications of com-
puter vision (pp. 1179–1187).
Liu, J., Gong, X., Liu, J. (2012). Guided inpaint-
ing and filtering for kinect depth maps.
Proceedings of the 21st international confer-
ence on pattern recognition (icpr2012) (pp.
2055–2058).
Liu, J., & Jung, C. (2022). Nnnet: New normal
guided depth completion from sparse lidar
data and single color image. IEEE Access,
10, 114252–114261,
Liu, L., Liao, Y., Wang, Y., Geiger, A., Liu, Y.
(2021). Learning steering kernels for guided
depth completion. IEEE Transactions on
Image Processing, 30, 2850–2861,
Liu, L., Song, X., Lyu, X., Diao, J., Wang, M.,
Liu, Y., Zhang, L. (2021). Fcfr-net: Feature
fusion based coarse-to-fine residual learn-
ing for depth completion. Proceedings of
the aaai conference on artificial intelligence
(Vol. 35, pp. 2136–2144).
Liu, L., Song, X., Sun, J., Lyu, X., Li, L., Liu,
Y., Zhang, L. (2023). Mff-net: Towards
efficient monocular depth completion with
multi-modal feature fusion. IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters , ,
Liu, P., Zhang, Z., Meng, Z., Gao, N. (2021).
Deformable enhancement and adaptive
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
fusion for depth map super-resolution. IEEE
Signal Processing Letters, 29, 204–208,
Liu, P., Zhang, Z., Meng, Z., Gao, N., Wang, C.
(2022). Pdr-net: Progressive depth recon-
struction network for color guided depth
map super-resolution. Neurocomputing,
479, 75–88,
Liu, R., Zhong, G., Cao, J., Lin, Z., Shan, S., Luo,
Z. (2016). Learning to diffuse: A new per-
spective to design pdes for visual analysis.
IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and
machine intelligence , 38(12), 2457–2471,
Liu, S., De Mello, S., Gu, J., Zhong, G., Yang, M.-
H., Kautz, J. (2017). Learning affinity via
spatial propagation networks. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 30,
,
Liu, T.Y., Agrawal, P., Chen, A., Hong, B.-W.,
Wong, A. (2022). Monitored distillation for
positive congruent depth completion. Com-
puter vision–eccv 2022: 17th european con-
ference, tel aviv, israel, october 23–27, 2022,
proceedings, part ii (pp. 35–53).
Liu, X., Li, Y., Teng, Y., Bao, H., Zhang, G.,
Zhang, Y., Cui, Z. (2023). Multi-modal neu-
ral radiance field for monocular dense slam
with a light-weight tof sensor. Proceedings
of the ieee/cvf international conference on
computer vision (pp. 1–11).
Liu, X., Shao, X., Wang, B., Li, Y., Wang, S.
(2022). Graphcspn: Geometry-aware depth
completion via dynamic gcns. Computer
vision–eccv 2022: 17th european conference,
tel aviv, israel, october 23–27, 2022, proceed-
ings, part xxxiii (pp. 90–107).
Lopez-Rodriguez, A., Busam, B., Mikolajczyk, K.
(2020). Project to adapt: Domain adapta-
tion for depth completion from noisy and
sparse sensor data. Proceedings of the asian
conference on computer vision.
Lu, J., Yang, J., Batra, D., Parikh, D. (2016).
Hierarchical question-image co-attention for
visual question answering. Advances in
neural information processing systems , 29,
,
Lu, K., Barnes, N., Anwar, S., Zheng, L. (2020).
From depth what can you see? depth com-
pletion via auxiliary image reconstruction.
Proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition(pp.
11306–11315).
Lu, S., Ren, X., Liu, F. (2014). Depth enhance-
ment via low-rank matrix completion. Pro-
ceedings of the ieee conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition (pp. 3390–
3397).
Lutio, R.d., D’aronco, S., Wegner, J.D., Schindler,
K. (2019). Guided super-resolution as
pixel-to-pixel transformation. Proceedings
of the ieee/cvf international conference on
computer vision (pp. 8829–8837).
Ma, F., Cavalheiro, G.V., Karaman, S. (2018).
Self-supervised sparse-to-dense: Self-
supervised depth completion from lidar
and monocular camera. 2019 International
Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), 3288-3295,
Ma, F., Cavalheiro, G.V., Karaman, S. (2019).
Self-supervised sparse-to-dense: Self-
supervised depth completion from lidar and
monocular camera. 2019 international con-
ference on robotics and automation (icra)
(pp. 3288–3295).
Ma, F., & Karaman, S. (2018). Sparse-to-
dense: Depth prediction from sparse depth
samples and a single image. 2018 ieee inter-
national conference on robotics and automa-
tion (icra) (pp. 4796–4803).
Manglik, A., Weng, X., Ohn-Bar, E., Kitanil,
K.M. (2019). Forecasting time-to-collision
from monocular video: Feasibility, dataset,
and challenges. 2019 ieee/rsj international
conference on intelligent robots and systems
39

--- PAGE 40 ---
(iros) (pp. 8081–8088).
Marivani, I., Tsiligianni, E., Cornelis, B., Deli-
giannis, N. (2020). Multimodal deep
unfolding for guided image super-resolution.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing ,
29, 8443–8456,
Mayer, N., Ilg, E., Hausser, P., Fischer, P., Cre-
mers, D., Dosovitskiy, A., Brox, T. (2016).
A large dataset to train convolutional net-
works for disparity, optical flow, and scene
flow estimation. Proceedings of the ieee
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 4040–4048).
Metzger, N., Daudt, R.C., Schindler, K. (2022).
Guided depth super-resolution by deep
anisotropic diffusion. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.11592 , ,
Nazir, D., Pagani, A., Liwicki, M., Stricker,
D., Afzal, M.Z. (2022). Semattnet:
Toward attention-based semantic aware
guided depth completion. IEEE Access, 10,
120781–120791,
Nguyen, T., & Yoo, M. (2022). Patchgan-based
depth completion in autonomous vehicle.
2022 international conference on informa-
tion networking (icoin) (pp. 498–501).
Park, J., Joo, K., Hu, Z., Liu, C.-K., So Kweon,
I. (2020). Non-local spatial propagation
network for depth completion. Computer
vision–eccv 2020: 16th european conference,
glasgow, uk, august 23–28, 2020, proceed-
ings, part xiii 16 (pp. 120–136).
Patil, P.W., Dudhane, A., Chaudhary, S., Murala,
S. (2022). Multi-frame based adversar-
ial learning approach for video surveillance.
Pattern Recognition, 122, 108350,
Peng, R., Zhang, T., Li, B., Wang, Y. (2022). Pix-
elwise adaptive discretization with uncer-
tainty sampling for depth completion. Pro-
ceedings of the 30th acm international con-
ference on multimedia (pp. 3926–3935).
Petschnigg, G., Szeliski, R., Agrawala, M., Cohen,
M., Hoppe, H., Toyama, K. (2004). Dig-
ital photography with flash and no-flash
image pairs. ACM transactions on graphics
(TOG), 23(3), 664–672,
Qi, C.R., Su, H., Mo, K., Guibas, L.J. (2017).
Pointnet: Deep learning on point sets for 3d
classification and segmentation. Proceedings
of the ieee conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition (pp. 652–660).
Qiao, X., Ge, C., Deng, P., Wei, H., Poggi,
M., Mattoccia, S. (2023). Depth restora-
tion in under-display time-of-flight imag-
ing. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Anal-
ysis and Machine Intelligence , 45(5), 5668-
5683, https://doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI
.2022.3209905
Qiao, X., Ge, C., Yao, H., Deng, P., Zhou, Y.
(2020). Valid depth data extraction and cor-
rection for time-of-flight camera. Twelfth
international conference on machine vision
(icmv 2019) (Vol. 11433, pp. 696–703).
Qiao, X., Ge, C., Zhang, Y., Zhou, Y., Tosi, F.,
Poggi, M., Mattoccia, S. (2023). Depth
super-resolution from explicit and implicit
high-frequency features. Computer Vision
and Image Understanding , 237, 103841,
Qiao, X., Ge, C., Zhao, C., Tosi, F., Poggi, M.,
Mattoccia, S. (2023). Self-supervised depth
super-resolution with contrastive multiview
pre-training. Neural Networks , 168, 223–
236,
Qiu, D., Pang, J., Sun, W., Yang, C. (2019).
Deep end-to-end alignment and refinement
for time-of-flight rgb-d module. Proceedings
of the ieee/cvf international conference on
40

--- PAGE 41 ---
computer vision (pp. 9994–10003).
Qiu, J., Cui, Z., Zhang, Y., Zhang, X., Liu, S.,
Zeng, B., Pollefeys, M. (2019). Deeplidar:
Deep surface normal guided depth predic-
tion for outdoor scene from sparse lidar data
and single color image. Proceedings of the
ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 3313–3322).
Qu, C., Nguyen, T., Taylor, C. (2020). Depth
completion via deep basis fitting. Proceed-
ings of the ieee/cvf winter conference on
applications of computer vision (pp. 71–80).
Ramesh, A.N., Giovanneschi, F., Gonz´ alez-Huici,
M.A. (2023). Siunet: Sparsity invariant
u-net for edge-aware depth completion. Pro-
ceedings of the ieee/cvf winter conference on
applications of computer vision (pp. 5818–
5827).
Riegler, G., Ferstl, D., R¨ uther, M., Horst, B.
(2016). A deep primal-dual network for
guided depth super-resolution. British
machine vision conference.
Riegler, G., R¨ uther, M., Bischof, H. (2016). Atgv-
net: Accurate depth super-resolution. Com-
puter vision–eccv 2016: 14th european con-
ference, amsterdam, the netherlands, october
11-14, 2016, proceedings, part iii 14 (pp.
268–284).
Romera, E., Alvarez, J.M., Bergasa, L.M., Arroyo,
R. (2017). Erfnet: Efficient residual factor-
ized convnet for real-time semantic segmen-
tation. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, 19(1), 263–272,
Ronneberger, O., Fischer, P., Brox, T. (2015). U-
net: Convolutional networks for biomedical
image segmentation. Medical image com-
puting and computer-assisted intervention–
miccai 2015: 18th international conference,
munich, germany, october 5-9, 2015, pro-
ceedings, part iii 18 (pp. 234–241).
Ryu, K., Lee, K.-i., Cho, J., Yoon, K.-J. (2021).
Scanline resolution-invariant depth comple-
tion using a single image and sparse lidar
point cloud. IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, 6(4), 6961–6968,
Scharstein, D., Hirschm¨ uller, H., Kitajima, Y.,
Krathwohl, G., Neˇ si´ c, N., Wang, X., West-
ling, P. (2014). High-resolution stereo
datasets with subpixel-accurate ground
truth. Pattern recognition: 36th german
conference, gcpr 2014, m¨ unster, germany,
september 2-5, 2014, proceedings 36 (pp.
31–42).
Scharstein, D., & Pal, C. (2007). Learning con-
ditional random fields for stereo. 2007 ieee
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 1–8).
Scharstein, D., & Szeliski, R. (2003). High-
accuracy stereo depth maps using structured
light. 2003 ieee computer society conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition,
2003. proceedings. (Vol. 1, pp. I–I).
Schuster, R., Wasenmuller, O., Unger, C., Stricker,
D. (2021). Ssgp: Sparse spatial guided prop-
agation for robust and generic interpolation.
Proceedings of the ieee/cvf winter confer-
ence on applications of computer vision (pp.
197–206).
Shacht, G., Danon, D., Fogel, S., Cohen-Or, D.
(2021). Single pair cross-modality super res-
olution. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf confer-
ence on computer vision and pattern recog-
nition (pp. 6378–6387).
Shin, J., Shin, S., Jeon, H.-G. (2023). Task-specific
scene structure representations. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2301.00555 , ,
Shivakumar, S.S., Nguyen, T., Miller, I.D., Chen,
S.W., Kumar, V., Taylor, C.J. (2019).
Dfusenet: Deep fusion of rgb and sparse
depth information for image guided dense
depth completion. 2019 ieee intelligent
transportation systems conference (itsc)(pp.
13–20).
Silberman, N., Hoiem, D., Kohli, P., Fergus, R.
(2012). Indoor segmentation and support
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
inference from rgbd images. European con-
ference on computer vision (pp. 746–760).
Song, P., Deng, X., Mota, J.F., Deligiannis, N.,
Dragotti, P.L., Rodrigues, M.R. (2019).
Multimodal image super-resolution via joint
sparse representations induced by coupled
dictionaries. IEEE Transactions on Compu-
tational Imaging , 6, 57–72,
Song, S., Lichtenberg, S.P., Xiao, J. (2015).
Sun rgb-d: A rgb-d scene understanding
benchmark suite. Proceedings of the ieee
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 567–576).
Song, X., Dai, Y., Zhou, D., Liu, L., Li, W., Li,
H., Yang, R. (2020). Channel attention
based iterative residual learning for depth
map super-resolution. Proceedings of the
ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 5631–5640).
Song, Z., Lu, J., Yao, Y., Zhang, J. (2021). Self-
supervised depth completion from direct
visual-lidar odometry in autonomous driv-
ing. IEEE Transactions on Intelli-
gent Transportation Systems, 23(8), 11654–
11665,
Su, H., Jampani, V., Sun, D., Gallo, O., Learned-
Miller, E., Kautz, J. (2019). Pixel-adaptive
convolutional neural networks. Proceedings
of the ieee/cvf conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition (pp. 11166–11175).
Su, S., Heide, F., Wetzstein, G., Heidrich, W.
(2018). Deep end-to-end time-of-flight imag-
ing. Proceedings of the ieee conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition(pp.
6383–6392).
Sun, B., Ye, X., Li, B., Li, H., Wang, Z., Xu, R.
(2021). Learning scene structure guidance
via cross-task knowledge transfer for single
depth super-resolution. Proceedings of the
ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 7792–7801).
Sun, P., Kretzschmar, H., Dotiwalla, X., Chouard,
A., Patnaik, V., Tsui, P., . . . others (2020).
Scalability in perception for autonomous
driving: Waymo open dataset. Proceedings
of the ieee/cvf conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition (pp. 2446–2454).
Sun, Z., Ye, W., Xiong, J., Choe, G., Wang, J.,
Su, S., Ranjan, R. (2023). Consistent direct
time-of-flight video depth super-resolution.
Proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition(pp.
5075–5085).
Tan, M., & Le, Q. (2019). Efficientnet: Rethinking
model scaling for convolutional neural net-
works. International conference on machine
learning (pp. 6105–6114).
Tang, J., Chen, X., Zeng, G. (2021). Joint
implicit image function for guided depth
super-resolution. Proceedings of the 29th
acm international conference on multimedia
(pp. 4390–4399).
Tang, J., Tian, F.-P., Feng, W., Li, J., Tan, P.
(2020). Learning guided convolutional net-
work for depth completion. IEEE Transac-
tions on Image Processing , 30, 1116–1129,
Tang, Q., Cong, R., Sheng, R., He, L., Zhang, D.,
Zhao, Y., Kwong, S. (2021). Bridgenet: A
joint learning network of depth map super-
resolution and monocular depth estimation.
Proceedings of the 29th acm international
conference on multimedia (pp. 2148–2157).
Tomasi, C., & Manduchi, R. (1998). Bilateral
filtering for gray and color images. Sixth
international conference on computer vision
(ieee cat. no. 98ch36271) (pp. 839–846).
Uhrig, J., Schneider, N., Schneider, L., Franke, U.,
Brox, T., Geiger, A. (2017). Sparsity invari-
ant cnns. 2017 international conference on
3d vision (3dv) (pp. 11–20).
Van Gansbeke, W., Neven, D., De Brabandere, B.,
Van Gool, L. (2019). Sparse and noisy lidar
completion with rgb guidance and uncer-
tainty. 2019 16th international conference
42

--- PAGE 43 ---
on machine vision applications (mva) (pp.
1–6).
Voynov, O., Artemov, A., Egiazarian, V.,
Notchenko, A., Bobrovskikh, G., Burnaev,
E., Zorin, D. (2019). Perceptual deep depth
super-resolution. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
international conference on computer vision
(pp. 5653–5663).
Wan, Q., Huang, Z., Lu, J., Yu, G., Zhang, L.
(2023). Seaformer: Squeeze-enhanced axial
transformer for mobile semantic segmenta-
tion. International conference on learning
representations (iclr).
Wang, H., Wang, M., Che, Z., Xu, Z., Qiao, X., Qi,
M., . . . Tang, J. (2022). Rgb-depth fusion
gan for indoor depth completion. Proceed-
ings of the ieee/cvf conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition (pp. 6209–
6218).
Wang, J., Liu, P., Wen, F. (2022). Self-supervised
learning for rgb-guided depth enhancement
by exploiting the dependency between rgb
and depth. IEEE Transactions on Image
Processing, 32, 159–174,
Wang, J., Liu, P., Wen, F. (2023). Self-supervised
learning for rgb-guided depth enhancement
by exploiting the dependency between rgb
and depth. IEEE Transactions on Image
Processing, 32, 159-174, https://doi.org/
10.1109/TIP.2022.3226419
Wang, K., Zhao, L., Zhang, J., Zhang, J., Wang,
A., Bai, H. (2023). Joint depth map
super-resolution method via deep hybrid-
cross guidance filter. Pattern Recognition,
136, 109260,
Wang, X., Chen, X., Ni, B., Tong, Z., Wang, H.
(2022). Learning continuous depth repre-
sentation via geometric spatial aggregator.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.03499 , ,
Wang, Y., Chao, W.-L., Garg, D., Hariharan, B.,
Campbell, M., Weinberger, K.Q. (2019).
Pseudo-lidar from visual depth estimation:
Bridging the gap in 3d object detection
for autonomous driving. Proceedings of the
ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 8445–8453).
Wang, Y., Li, B., Zhang, G., Liu, Q., Tao, G.,
Dai, Y. (2023). Lrru: Long-short range
recurrent updating networks for depth com-
pletion. Proceedings of the ieee interna-
tional conference on computer vision (iccv)
(p. 9422-9432).
Wang, Y., Yang, J., Yue, H. (2023). Depth
map continuous super-resolution with local
implicit guidance function. Displays, 78,
102418,
Wang, Z., Ye, X., Sun, B., Yang, J., Xu, R., Li,
H. (2020). Depth upsampling based on deep
edge-aware learning. Pattern Recognition,
103, 107274,
Weickert, J., et al. (1998). Anisotropic diffu-
sion in image processing (Vol. 1). Teubner
Stuttgart.
Wen, Y., Sheng, B., Li, P., Lin, W., Feng, D.D.
(2019). Deep color guided coarse-to-fine con-
volutional network cascade for depth image
super-resolution. IEEE Transactions on
Image Processing, 28(2), 994-1006, https://
doi.org/10.1109/TIP.2018.2874285
Wong, A., Cicek, S., Soatto, S. (2021). Learning
topology from synthetic data for unsuper-
vised depth completion. IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters, 6(2), 1495–1502,
Wong, A., Fei, X., Tsuei, S., Soatto, S. (2020).
Unsupervised depth completion from visual
inertial odometry. IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters, 5(2), 1899–1906,
43

--- PAGE 44 ---
Wong, A., & Soatto, S. (2021). Unsupervised
depth completion with calibrated backpro-
jection layers. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
international conference on computer vision
(pp. 12747–12756).
Wronski, B., Garcia-Dorado, I., Ernst, M., Kelly,
D., Krainin, M., Liang, C.-K., . . . Milanfar,
P. (2019). Handheld multi-frame super-
resolution. ACM Transactions on Graphics
(ToG), 38(4), 1–18,
Wu, X., Peng, L., Yang, H., Xie, L., Huang, C.,
Deng, C., . . . Cai, D. (2022). Sparse fuse
dense: Towards high quality 3d detection
with depth completion. Proceedings of the
ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 5418–5427).
Xia, F., Zamir, A.R., He, Z., Sax, A., Malik, J.,
Savarese, S. (2018). Gibson env: Real-world
perception for embodied agents. Proceedings
of the ieee conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition (pp. 9068–9079).
Xie, Z., Yu, X., Gao, X., Li, K., Shen, S. (2022).
Recent advances in conventional and deep
learning-based depth completion: A survey.
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and
Learning Systems , 1-21, https://doi.org/
10.1109/TNNLS.2022.3201534
Xu, J., Zhu, Y., Wang, W., Liu, G. (2023).
A real-time semi-dense depth-guided depth
completion network. The Visual Computer ,
1–11,
Xu, L., Guan, T., Wang, Y., Luo, Y., Chen, Z.,
Liu, W., Yang, W. (2022). Self-supervised
multi-view stereo via adjacent geometry
guided volume completion. Proceedings of
the 30th acm international conference on
multimedia (pp. 2202–2210).
Xu, Y., Zhu, X., Shi, J., Zhang, G., Bao, H.,
Li, H. (2019). Depth completion from
sparse lidar data with depth-normal con-
straints. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf inter-
national conference on computer vision (pp.
2811–2820).
Xu, Z., Yin, H., Yao, J. (2020). Deformable spatial
propagation networks for depth completion.
2020 ieee international conference on image
processing (icip) (pp. 913–917).
Yan, L., Liu, K., Belyaev, E. (2020). Revisiting
sparsity invariant convolution: A network
for image guided depth completion. IEEE
Access, 8, 126323–126332,
Yan, Z., Wang, K., Li, X., Zhang, Z., Li, J., Yang,
J. (2022). Rignet: Repetitive image guided
network for depth completion. Computer
vision–eccv 2022: 17th european conference,
tel aviv, israel, october 23–27, 2022, proceed-
ings, part xxvii (pp. 214–230).
Yang, A., & Sankaranarayanan, A.C. (2021).
Designing display pixel layouts for under-
panel cameras. IEEE Transactions on
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence ,
43(7), 2245–2256,
Yang, Y., Wong, A., Soatto, S. (2019). Dense
depth posterior (ddp) from single image and
sparse range. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 3353–3362).
Ye, X., Sun, B., Wang, Z., Yang, J., Xu, R., Li,
H., Li, B. (2020). Pmbanet: Progressive
multi-branch aggregation network for scene
depth super-resolution. IEEE Transactions
on Image Processing , 29, 7427–7442,
Yu, Q., Chu, L., Wu, Q., Pei, L. (2021). Grayscale
and normal guided depth completion with
a low-cost lidar. 2021 ieee international
conference on image processing (icip) (pp.
979–983).
Yu, Z., Sheng, Z., Zhou, Z., Luo, L., Cao, S.-Y.,
Gu, H., . . . Shen, H.-L. (2023). Aggre-
gating feature point cloud for depth com-
pletion. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf inter-
national conference on computer vision (pp.
8732–8743).
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
Yuan, J., Jiang, H., Li, X., Qian, J., Li, J., Yang,
J. (2023a). Recurrent structure attention
guidance for depth super-resolution. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2301.13419 , ,
Yuan, J., Jiang, H., Li, X., Qian, J., Li, J., Yang, J.
(2023b). Structure flow-guided network for
real depth super-resolution. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2301.13416 , ,
Zhang, C., Tang, Y., Zhao, C., Sun, Q., Ye, Z.,
Kurths, J. (2021). Multitask gans for
semantic segmentation and depth comple-
tion with cycle consistency. IEEE Trans-
actions on Neural Networks and Learning
Systems, 32(12), 5404–5415,
Zhang, Q., Chen, X., Wang, X., Han, J., Zhang,
Y., Yue, J. (2022). Self-supervised depth
completion based on multi-modal spatio-
temporal consistency. Remote Sensing ,
15(1), 135,
Zhang, Y., & Funkhouser, T. (2018). Deep
depth completion of a single rgb-d image.
Proceedings of the ieee conference on com-
puter vision and pattern recognition (pp.
175–185).
Zhang, Y., Guo, X., Poggi, M., Zhu, Z., Huang,
G., Mattoccia, S. (2023). Completion-
former: Depth completion with convolutions
and vision transformers. Cvpr.
Zhang, Y., & Yang, Q. (2021). A survey on
multi-task learning. IEEE Transactions on
Knowledge and Data Engineering , 34(12),
5586–5609,
Zhao, C., Yen, G.G., Sun, Q., Zhang, C., Tang, Y.
(2020). Masked gan for unsupervised depth
and pose prediction with scale consistency.
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and
Learning Systems, 32(12), 5392–5403,
Zhao, S., Gong, M., Fu, H., Tao, D. (2021). Adap-
tive context-aware multi-modal network for
depth completion. IEEE Transactions on
Image Processing, 30, 5264–5276,
Zhao, Z., Zhang, J., Gu, X., Tan, C., Xu, S.,
Zhang, Y., . . . Van Gool, L. (2023). Spher-
ical space feature decomposition for guided
depth map super-resolution. Proceedings
of the IEEE International Conference on
Computer Vision (ICCV) , 12547-12558,
Zhao, Z., Zhang, J., Xu, S., Lin, Z., Pfister,
H. (2022). Discrete cosine transform net-
work for guided depth map super-resolution.
Proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition(pp.
5697–5707).
Zhong, Z., Liu, X., Jiang, J., Zhao, D., Chen,
Z., Ji, X. (2021). High-resolution depth
maps imaging via attention-based hierarchi-
cal multi-modal fusion. IEEE Transactions
on Image Processing , 31, 648–663,
Zhong, Z., Liu, X., Jiang, J., Zhao, D., Ji, X.
(2023a). Deep attentional guided image
filtering. IEEE Transactions on Neural
Networks and Learning Systems , ,
Zhong, Z., Liu, X., Jiang, J., Zhao, D., Ji,
X. (2023b). Guided depth map super-
resolution: A survey. ACM Computing
Surveys, ,
Zhou, M., Yan, K., Pan, J., Ren, W., Xie, Q.,
Cao, X. (2023). Memory-augmented deep
unfolding network for guided image super-
resolution. International Journal of Com-
puter Vision , 131(1), 215–242,
Zhou, T., Brown, M., Snavely, N., Lowe, D.G.
(2017). Unsupervised learning of depth
and ego-motion from video. Proceedings of
the ieee conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (pp. 1851–1858).
45

--- PAGE 46 ---
Zhou, Y., Kwan, M., Tolentino, K., Emer-
ton, N., Lim, S., Large, T., . . . others
(2020). Udc 2020 challenge on image restora-
tion of under-display camera: Methods and
results. Computer vision–eccv 2020 work-
shops: Glasgow, uk, august 23–28, 2020,
proceedings, part v 16 (pp. 337–351).
Zhou, Y., Ren, D., Emerton, N., Lim, S., Large,
T. (2021). Image restoration for under-
display camera. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 9179–9188).
Zhu, X., Hu, H., Lin, S., Dai, J. (2019).
Deformable convnets v2: More deformable,
better results. Proceedings of the ieee/cvf
conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 9308–9316).
Zhu, Y., Dong, W., Li, L., Wu, J., Li, X., Shi,
G. (2022). Robust depth completion with
uncertainty-driven loss functions. Proceed-
ings of the aaai conference on artificial
intelligence (Vol. 36, pp. 3626–3634).
Zoph, B., Vasudevan, V., Shlens, J., Le, Q.V.
(2018). Learning transferable architectures
for scalable image recognition. Proceedings
of the ieee conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition (pp. 8697–8710).
Zou, N., Xiang, Z., Chen, Y., Chen, S., Qiao, C.
(2020). Simultaneous semantic segmenta-
tion and depth completion with constraint
of boundary. Sensors, 20(3), 635,
Zuo, Y., Fang, Y., An, P., Shang, X., Yang,
J. (2020). Frequency-dependent depth
map enhancement via iterative depth-guided
affine transformation and intensity-guided
refinement. IEEE Transactions on Multime-
dia, 23, 772–783,
Zuo, Y., Fang, Y., Yang, Y., Shang, X., Wu, Q.
(2019). Depth map enhancement by revis-
iting multi-scale intensity guidance within
coarse-to-fine stages. IEEE Transactions on
Circuits and Systems for Video Technology ,
30(12), 4676–4687,
Zuo, Y., Wang, H., Fang, Y., Huang, X., Shang,
X., Wu, Q. (2021). Mig-net: Multi-scale
network alternatively guided by intensity
and gradient features for depth map super-
resolution. IEEE Transactions on Multime-
dia, 24, 3506–3519,
Zuo, Y., Wu, Q., Fang, Y., An, P., Huang, L.,
Chen, Z. (2019). Multi-scale frequency
reconstruction for guided depth map super-
resolution via deep residual network. IEEE
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for
Video Technology, 30(2), 297–306,
46
